ยง 25-3-4 - DEFINITIONS.
In this chapter:
(1)
about:blank 320/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
COMMUNITY PARKING FACILITY means an off-site parking lot or garage that provides required parking for some or all of the uses within a Neighborhood Center
Area.
(2) CRITERIA MANUAL means a manual containing administrative rules adopted in accordance with Chapter 1-2 (Adoption of Rules) of the City Code.
(3) DIRECTOR means the director of the Neighborhood Planning and Zoning Department of the City of Austin.
(4) FRONTAGE BUILDOUT means the length of a front building facade compared to the length of the front lot line, expressed as a percentage.
(5) GREEN means an open space available for unstructured recreation, its landscaping consisting of grassy areas and trees.
(6) GREENBELT means a series of connected open spaces that may follow natural features such as ravines, creeks, or streams.
(7) MAJOR CIVIC USE includes Administrative and Business Offices use by a governmental entity, College and University Facilities use, Cultural Services
use, Postal Facilities use, Private Primary Educational Facilities use, Private Secondary Educational Facilities use, Public Primary Educational Facilities
use, Public Secondary Educational Facilities use, Religious Assembly use, Safety Services use, and Transportation Terminal use.
(8) MAJOR PRIVATE OPEN SPACE IMPROVEMENTS include swimming pools, tennis courts, basketball courts, sports fields, recreation centers, and
community meeting halls.
(9) OPEN SPACE includes squares, plazas, greens, preserves, parks, and greenbelts.
(10) PARK means an open space, available for recreation, its landscape consisting of paved paths and trails, some open lawn, trees, open shelters, or
recreational facilities.
(11) PLAZA means open space at the intersection of important streets, set aside for civic purposes and commercial activity, including parking, its landscape
consisting of durable pavement and formal tree plantings.
(12) PRESERVE means open space that preserves or protects endangered species, a critical environmental feature, or other natural feature.
(13) PRIVATE OPEN SPACE means open space that is owned and maintained by a Property Owners' Association or an individual property owner.
(14) PUBLIC OPEN SPACE means open space that is owned and maintained by the City.
(15) SIDE YARD HOUSE means a dwelling built adjacent to an interior side lot line with a yard adjacent to the opposite side lot line.
(16) SQUARE means open space that may encompass an entire block, is located at the intersection of important streets, and is set aside for civic purposes,
with landscape consisting of paved walks, lawns, trees, and civic buildings.
(17) STREETSCAPE means the area within a street right of way that contains sidewalks, street furniture, landscaping, or trees.
Source: Section 13-9-4; Ord. 990225-70; Ord. 010329-18; Ord. 031211-11.