ยง 25-3-79 - WATER QUALITY.
(A) The water quality provisions of the Land Development Code apply to development in a traditional neighborhood district, except as provided in this
section.
(B) Water quality planning and engineering for a traditional neighborhood district shall be for the district as a whole.
(C) Allowable impervious cover is calculated in accordance with this subsection.
(1) In calculating water quality related development intensities, the term "site" shall include all property within a traditional neighborhood district.
(2) In calculating water quality development intensities, a traditional neighborhood district is classified as "commercial development".
(3) Impervious cover calculations shall assume the maximum impervious cover allowable for each lot within a traditional neighborhood district.
(D) Impervious cover limits in a traditional neighborhood district are as follows:
(1) Overall impervious cover for a traditional neighborhood district is limited to 65 percent of net site area or the amount permitted in the watershed,
whichever is less.
(2) A Neighborhood Center Area lot, except an open space lot, is limited to impervious cover of not more than 90 percent of gross site area.
(3) A Mixed Residential Area lot, except a commercial lot or an open space lot, is limited to impervious cover of not more than 65 percent of gross site
area. A commercial lot is limited to impervious cover of not more than 90 percent of gross site area.
(4) A Neighborhood Edge Area lot, except an open space lot, is limited to impervious cover of not more than 65 percent of gross site area.
(5) A Workshop Area lot or Employment Center Area lot, except an open space lot, is limited to impervious cover of not more than 80 percent of gross
site area.
(6) Open space impervious cover limits are as follows:
(a) An open space lot that is a plaza or square is limited to impervious cover of not more than 90 percent of gross site area.
(b) Greenbelts, preserves, parks, and greens are limited to impervious cover of not more than 10 percent of gross site area overall.
(c) A greenbelt, preserve, park, or green may be restricted by the owner to impervious cover of less than 10 percent of the gross site area. The
restricted amount shall be used for impervious cover calculations.
(d) Impervious coverage for greenbelts, preserves, parks, and greens classified as public open space shall be calculated and enforced separately from
those classified as private open space.
(E) Water quality control facilities shall be privately owned, with easements granted to the City, and maintained for functionality by the City, unless other
arrangements are made with the director of the Watershed Protection and Development Review Department.
(F) A final plat may not be approved unless a water quality master plan for the entire traditional neighborhood district has been approved by the director of
the Watershed Protection and Development Review Department. A final plat may not be approved unless adequate water quality control facilities are
provided for all property within the plat.
(G) Development on a lot may not exceed the impervious cover limit set forth in this section. A building or construction permit may not be issued for
development that exceeds the limit.
Source: Section 13-9-49; Ord. 990225-70; Ord. 010329-18; Ord. 031211-11.