§ 25-10-157 - SPECIAL EVENTS SIGNS.
(A) A permit may be issued under this section only for a sign to be used at a permitted special event that meets the criteria specified in Paragraphs (b) and (c)
of Section 25-10-3(17) (Definitions) and includes public streets that have been closed to traffic in accordance with Title 14 (Use of Streets and Public
Property).
(B) For a special event occurring in the downtown sign district, the director shall issue a permit to install a projected special event sign in accordance with the
requirements of this subsection.
(1) No more than two projected special event signs are permitted per special event.
(2) A projected special event sign may only be displayed on a single façade of a legally permitted building and may not exceed the lesser of:
(a) 50% of the area of the
façade, or
(b) 6,000 square feet.
(3) An application for a projected special event sign must be submitted by the special event permit holder and must include letters of approval from the
owners of the building where the projected image will appear and the property where the projected image will originate.
(4) A projected special event sign may not:
(a) shine, either fully or partially, on any property, building, or public right-of-way, including a street or sidewalk other than the building where the
image will appear;
(b) impair the vision of or distract a driver of a vehicle;
(c) be controlled through social media or by any person other than the applicant; or
(d) be displayed at any time outside the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m. during the approved duration of the special event.
(C) A special event permit holder may install a non-projected special event sign in accordance with the requirements of this subsection.
(1) A non-projected special event sign:
(a) may not exceed 96 square feet; and
(b) must be attached to:
(i) a fence located at the boundaries of the special event venue; or
(ii) the wall of a legally permitted permanent or temporary structure included within the boundaries of a special event venue, if the owner of the
building or structure has agreed to placement of the sign.
(2) A non-projected special event sign may not impair the vision of or distract a driver of a vehicle.
(D) The director may revoke a permit for a special event sign approved under this section if operation of the sign is deemed to constitute a threat to public
health and safety.
Source: Ord. 20140213-088, Pt. 3, 2-24-14; Ord. No. 20170817-072, Pts. 19, 20, 8-28-17.