ยง 25-11-213 - BUILDING, DEMOLITION, AND RELOCATION PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF APPROPRIATENESS RELATING TO CERTAIN BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES OR SITES.
(A) In this section "National Register Historic District" means an area designated in the Federal Register under the National Preservation Act of 1966, as
amended, for which maps depicting the area are available for inspection by the public at the Neighborhood Planning and Zoning Department.
(B) Except as provided in Subsection (C), this section applies to a building, structure, or site:
(1) located in a National Register Historic District;
(2) listed in a professionally prepared survey of historic structures approved by the historic preservation officer;
(3) individually listed in the National Register of Historic Places;
(4) designated as a Recorded Texas Historic Landmark, a State Archeological Landmark, or a National Historic Landmark;
(5) designated as a historic landmark (H)combining district;
(6) located within a historic area (HD) combining district; or
(7) determined by the historic preservation officer to have potential for designation as a historic landmark.
(C) This section does not apply to a structure if the historic preservation officer determines that the structure:
(1) is less than 50 years old;
(2) does not meet at least two of the criteria for designation as a historic landmark (H) combining district prescribed by Section 25-2-352(A)(3)(b) (Historic
Designation Criteria); and
(3) is not a contributing structure in a historic area (HD) combining district.
(D) When the building official receives an application requesting a building permit, relocation permit, or demolition permit for a structure to which this
section applies, the building official shall immediately:
(1) notify the historic preservation officer; and
(2) upon receipt of notification by the historic preservation officer that the application will be placed upon the Commission's agenda, the building official
shall post a sign on the site and notify property owners, residents, and registered neighborhood associations in accordance with Section 25-1-133(A).
(E) The historic preservation officer shall complete the review of an application for a demolition, relocation, or building permit within five business days of
receipt of a complete application, and determine whether to place the application on the Commission agenda.
(F) The Commission shall hold a public hearing on an application described in Subsection (D) within 60 days of receipt of a complete application.
(G) The building official shall not issue a building permit, relocation permit, or demolition permit for a structure to which this section applies until the earlier
of:
(1) the date the Commission makes a decision not to initiate a historic zoning designation case regarding the structure;
(2) the date on which the Commission approves an application for a certificate of appropriateness, or makes recommendations on an application for a
building permit;
(3) except as provided in Subsection (G)(4), the expiration of 75 days after the date of the first Commission meeting at which the application is posted on
the agenda; or
(4) the expiration of 180 days after receipt of a complete application for a contributing structure within a National Register Historic District or a pending
historic area (HD) combining district.
(H) If the Commission makes a decision to initiate a historic zoning designation case, a designation becomes pending on the structure under Section 25-11-
214.
(I) The historic preservation officer may approve applications for each of the following:
about:blank 516/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
(1) Building permits for properties located within a National Register Historic District which are considered minor projects, such as:
(a) construction of a one-story ground-floor addition or outbuilding with no more than 600 square feet of gross floor area;
(b) construction of a second-story rear addition to a two-story building or structure if the addition is not visible from an adjacent public street; or
(c) construction of a pool, deck, fence, back porch enclosure, or other minor feature.
(2) Demolition permits for minor outbuildings within a National Register Historic District such as carports, detached garages, sheds, greenhouses, and
other outbuildings determined by the historic preservation officer not to possess historical or architectural significance either as a stand-alone
building or structure, or as part of a complex of buildings or structures on the site.
(3) Demolition or relocation permits for properties deemed non-contributing to the historic character of a National Register Historic District.
(J) The building official may not release a demolition or relocation permit for a building or structure deemed contributing to a National Register Historic
District or a historic area (HD) combining district until the Commission has reviewed and made recommendations on the application for a building permit
for the site, unless the building official determines that demolition or relocation is necessary for reasons related to public safety.
(K) For properties subject to Section 25-11-212 (Certificate Required), the historic preservation officer and the commission shall consider the United States
Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation, 36 Code of Federal Regulations Section 67.7(b), and:
(1) except as provided in Subsection (K)(2), the historic design standards and the supplemental standards, if any; or
(2) for a property located within an area designated as an historic area (HD) combining district prior to the effective date of this ordinance, the design
standards applicable to that district.
(L) Owners of properties located within a National Register Historic District are not required to comply with the historic design standards for new
construction or alterations to existing contributing buildings; however, projects within such districts subject to the requirements of this section are
subject to advisory review by the historic preservation officer and the commission, which shall consider the historic design standards in making their
recommendations.
Source: Section 13-2-763; Ord. 990225-70; Ord. 010329-18; Ord. 031211-11; Ord. 041202-16; 20090806-068; Ord. 20111215-091; Ord. 20130829-106; Ord. No.
20221115-049, Pt. 8, 11-28-22.