ยง 25-6-662 - ASSESSMENT OF STREET IMPACT FEES.
(A) Assessment of the street impact fee for any new development shall occur:
(1) on December 21, 2020, if the final plat approval occurred before December 21, 2020;
(2) at the time of final plat approval if the development has not received plat approval; or
(3) at the time an application is submitted for a building permit for development that is exempted from platting under Section 25-4-2 (Exemption from
Platting Requirements).
(B) For a development that has been assessed a street impact fee under Section 25-6-662(A)(1), the street impact fee shall be reassessed if the owner
submits a new application for plat approval.
(C) An application for an amended plat shall not be subject to reassessment for an impact fee.
(D) All assessments of street impact fees shall be the amount of the maximum street impact fee per service unit as set forth in adopted street impact fee
study in effect.
(E) The amount of the maximum street impact fee for a new development, less any applicable percentage reduction in fees attributable to internal recapture,
transit proximity, or parking management techniques under Section 25-6-667 (Mobility Related Reductions), may be considered by the director's
designated engineer as an appropriate measure of the new development's demand for roadway system facilities under Section 25-6-23 (Proportionality of
Required Infrastructure). The amount of street impact fees assessed may be used in evaluating any claim by an applicant that the infrastructure
improvements required in conjunction with approval of the development application are not roughly proportionate to the proposed development. To the
extent that the street impact fee collected from a new development is less than the maximum impact fee per service unit, except for reductions under
Section 25-6-667 (Mobility Related Reductions), such difference hereby is declared to be founded on policies unrelated to measurement of the impacts of
the new development on the City's roadway system.
Source: Ord. No. 20201210-062, Pt. 2, 12-21-20.