ยง 25-11-211 - DEFINITIONS.
In this article:
(1) ALTERATION means any exterior change, demolition, or modification to a historic landmark or to a contributing property located within a historic area
(HD)combining district, including, but not limited to:
(a) exterior changes to or modifications of structures, architectural details, or visual characteristics;
(b) construction of new structures;
(c) disturbance of archeological sites or areas; or
(d) placement or removal of exterior objects that affect the exterior qualities of the property.
(2) ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE means an architectural element, which alone or as part of a pattern, embodies the style, design, or general arrangement of
the exterior of a building or structure, including but not limited to the kind, color, and texture of building materials, and style and type of windows,
doors, lights, porches, and signs.
(3) CERTIFICATE means a certificate of appropriateness issued by the City approving work on, relocation of, or demolition of a historic structure, historic
or archeological site, or a contributing structure within a historic area (HD) combining district.
(4) COMMISSION means the Historic Landmark Commission.
(5) CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE means a building, structure, site, feature, or object within a designated historic area (HD) combining district which has
been designated as a contributing structure by the ordinance creating the district, or within a National Register District.
(6) DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT means lack of maintenance of any building or structure designated as a historic landmark (H) or any building or structure
designated by ordinance as contributing to a historic area (HD) combining district that results in deterioration and threatens the preservation of the
structure.
(7) HISTORIC AREA COMBINING DISTRICT means a district approved by the Council through an ordinance which contains a geographically definable area,
possessing particular architectural, cultural, or historic importance or significance. A historic area (HD) combining district must consist, at a minimum,
of one block-face.
(8) ORDINARY REPAIR OR MAINTENANCE means any work that does not constitute an exterior change in design, material, or outward appearance, and
includes in-kind replacement or repair with the same original material.
(9) OWNER OR PROPERTY OWNER means the record owner of a property within an existing or proposed historic landmark (H) or historic area (HD)
combining district or an agent of the property owner.
Source: Chapter 13-2 Division 4, Part B; Ord. 990225-70; Ord. 031211-11; Ord. 041202-16; 20090806-068.