ยง 25-2-655 - DENSITY BONUS CREATIVE SPACES (DBCS) COMBINING DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
(A) This section applies to a property with density bonus creative space (DBCS) combining district zoning.
(B) This section governs over a conflicting provision of this title or other ordinance.
(C) Pre-requisites.
(1) To utilize the supplemental standards and regulations described in Subsections (E) and (F), the site's zoning must include density bonus creative
spaces (DBCS) combining district zoning and applicant must comply with Subsection (D).
(2) To reserve affordable creative spaces and to preserve existing non-residential spaces, an applicant must comply with Article 2 (Density Bonus and
Incentive Programs) of Chapter 4-18 (General Permitting Standards) before applying for a building permit or site plan that relies on the regulations
described in Subsections (E) and (F).
(D) Existing Non-Residential Spaces.
(1) In this subsection,
(a) AFFORDABLE CREATIVE SPACE means the rent for the space is the lesser of 50 percent of the average retail space rent within the city or a fixed
ratio of annual revenues.
(b) COCKTAIL LOUNGE means a cocktail lounge use described in Chapter 25-2 (Zoning) and established on or before October 31, 2024.
(c) CREATIVE SPACE means a use described in Chapter 25-2 (Zoning) that allows one or more of the following occupancies:
(i) art gallery;
(ii) art workshop;
(iii) cocktail lounge;
(iv) cultural services;
(v) performance venue;
(vi) personal improvement services; or
(vii) theater.
(d) EXISTING NON-RESIDENTIAL SPACE means a creative space use that has operated for a minimum of 12 continuous months.
(2) If a site includes an existing non-residential space, the proposed development must replace each existing non-residential space with a non-residential
space that is comparable in size for a period of 10 years.
(3) Affordable Creative Spaces.
(a) At least 25 percent of the ground floor must be eligible to be leased to an operator of an affordable creative space.
(b) The director of the Economic Development Department determines the fixed ratio of annual revenues, which will be based on the annual
revenues considered typical of and sustainable for the type of creative space.
(c) Rent for an affordable creative space tenant may not escalate more than 5 percent year-over-year.
(4) An applicant for a proposed development may elect to meet the affordability requirements in Subsection (E)(3) without providing affordable creative
spaces by paying a fee-in-lieu to a fund managed by the Economic Development Department for the purpose of preserving existing creative spaces or
creating affordable creative spaces. At a minimum, the fee-in-lieu shall be equivalent to 100 percent of the required percentage of affordable creative
space. The fee-in-lieu shall be set by separate ordinance. The amount of fee-in-lieu due is determined using the fee schedule ordinance in effect at the
time of site plan submittal.
(5) This subsection establishes an existing non-residential space subject to Division 2 (Redevelopment Requirements), Article 2 of Chapter 4-18 (General
Permitting Standards).
(6) A non-conforming use is not discontinued or abandoned under Section 25-2-945 (Abandonment of Nonconforming Use) if the non-conforming use
qualifies as an existing non-residential space and is required to be replaced under this subsection.
(E) Development Standards and Mixed Use.
(1) The following uses are permitted on a property with density bonus creative spaces (DBCS) combining district zoning:
(a) uses permitted by the zoning ordinance that applies to the property; and
(b) creative spaces permitted in the ordinance designating the district.
(2) A development must comply with Article 2 (Site Development Standards) and Article 3 (Building Design Standards) of Subchapter E (Design Standards
and Mixed Use) except when those provisions conflict with this section.
(3) Mix of Uses.
(a)
about:blank 148/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
In this subdivision, PRINCIPAL STREET has the same meaning as principal street in and is applied consistent with Article 5 (Definitions) of Subchapter E (Design
Standards and Mixed Use).
(b) Pedestrian-Oriented Creative Spaces. When a site abuts a principal street, 30 percent of the building frontage along the principal street and on the
ground floor must be designed for creative spaces and must comply with the requirements of Section 4.3.3.C (Pedestrian-Oriented Commercial
Spaces) of Subchapter E (Design Standards and Mixed Use).
(4) A building may exceed the maximum building height in the base zoning district by a maximum of 30 feet except that no building may exceed 90 feet
in height.
(5) A site is not required to comply with the base zoning district's:
(a) minimum site area requirements (if applicable);
(b) maximum floor area ratio;
(c) maximum building coverage;
(d) maximum number of stories;
(e) minimum street side yard setback and interior yard setback; and
(f) minimum front yard setback; provided, however, that if the right-of-way is less than 60 feet in width, the minimum front yard setback for buildings
three or more stories in height shall be 30 feet from the centerline of the street to ensure adequate Fire Department access.
(6) Section 1.4 (Minor Modifications) and Section 1.5 (Alternative Equivalent Compliance) of Subchapter E (Design Standards and Mixed Use) apply to a
site developed under this section.
(7) A site developed under this section shall comply with the supplemental standards that are established in the ordinance that created the applicable
density bonus creative spaces (DBCS) combining district.
(F) Compatibility Requirements.
(1) A building is not required to comply with Article 10 (Compatibility Standards) in Subchapter C (Use and Development Regulations).
(2) In this subsection,
(a) TRIGGERING PROPERTY means a site:
(i) with at least one dwelling unit but less than four dwelling units; and
(ii) is zoned urban family residence (SF-5) district or more restrictive; and
(b) STRUCTURE includes a portion of a structure.
(3) Compatibility Buffer. A compatibility buffer is required along a site's property line that is shared with a triggering property.
(a) The minimum width of a compatibility buffer is 25 feet.
(b) A compatibility buffer must comply with Section 25-8-700 (Minimum Requirements for Compatibility Buffers).
(4) Exterior lighting must be hooded or shielded so that the light source is not visible from the site's property line or alleyway that is shared with a
triggering property.
(5) Mechanical equipment may not produce sound in excess of 70 decibels measured at the site's property line or alleyway that is shared with a
triggering property.
(6) A concrete slab used for a refuse receptacle may not be placed within 15 feet of triggering property.
(7) Except for a multi-use trail, an on-site amenity that is available only to residents and occupants of the site and their guests may not be located within
25 feet of a triggering property.
(8) Screening Requirements. Except when visible from or through a pedestrian or bicycle access point, the following objects shall be screened and may
not be visible at the site's property line or alleyway that is shared with a triggering property:
(a) vehicle lights from vehicles that use or are parked on a parking lot or in a parking structure located on the site;
(b) ground floor and rooftop mechanical equipment;
(c) outdoor storage;
(d) refuse receptacles and collection areas; and
(e) common areas for amenities, including outdoor decks, patios, and pools.
(9) The screening required in Subdivision (F)(9) may not impede pedestrian or bicycle access points.
(10) Rooftop mechanical equipment may be screened by a parapet.
Source: Ord. No. 20241010-034, Pt. 4, 10-21-24.
Division 6. - Waterfront Overlay District Requirements for Town Lake Park.