ยง 25-9-32 - DEFINITIONS.
In this division:
(1) CONSTRUCTION, with reference to a facility, means only the actual physical construction of the facility. The term does not include the engineering and
project management for a facility.
(2) COST PARTICIPATION means a calculated percentage, as set forth in Section 25-9-62 (Amount of Cost Participation), of hard costs, plus up to 15% of
the calculated percentage of hard costs to reimburse soft costs. The City would pay the sum of these amounts to the entity executing the agreement
identified in Section 25-9-67 (Agreement).
(3) DECENTRALIZED WASTEWATER SYSTEM means a wastewater system other than one that is connected to a City wastewater treatment plant, and
includes an on-site wastewater disposal system, a cluster wastewater system, or a small wastewater treatment plant.
(4) DIRECTOR means the director, or his designee, of the City's Austin Water department or successor department.
(5) FACILITY means an apparatus or improvement that is used in conjunction with a water or wastewater main that provides water or wastewater service
to a property, regardless of where the facility is located. The term includes a lift station, force main, wastewater treatment plant, pump station,
reservoir, Pressure Reducing Valve station, a decentralized wastewater system component, alternative wastewater system, or an addition to an
existing facility that increases the capability of the existing facility to provide water or wastewater service.
(6) HARD COSTS means the actual cost of construction and materials determined after completion and final acceptance of a project.
(7) OVERSIZE, with reference to a water or wastewater main or facility, means an increase in the size or capacity of the main or facility above the
minimum size or capacity required by the Utilities Criteria Manual, including fire flow requirements, that is necessary to provide utility service to meet
the projected demands of the property to be served.
(8) SERVICE EXTENSION means a water or wastewater main or facility that provides new or additional water or wastewater service to a property.
(9) SOFT COSTS means the cost of preliminary engineering reports, surveying, geotechnical studies, design, and project management of the construction
and installation of a main or facility. This term does not include costs such as financing, interest, fiscal security, permitting, accounting, insurance,
governmental fees (including inspection fees), legal services, easements, and all other soft costs associated with the construction of a main or facility.
(10) SUITABLE AND SUFFICIENT SERVICE means the ability of the existing water and wastewater system at the property to appropriately serve the property
and meet the size and capacity criteria as defined in the Utilities Criteria Manual.
(11) WATER means potable water or reclaimed water as defined by Section 210.3(24) of Title 30 of the Texas Administrative Code.
(12) WATER OR WASTEWATER MAIN means an appurtenance to a water distribution or wastewater collection system. The term includes all components
and equipment necessary to make the water distribution or wastewater collection system operable in compliance with the design criteria and
standards in the Utilities Criteria Manual, or the equivalent design criteria and standards as determined by the Director.
(13) WATER OR WASTEWATER SERVICE LINE means the branch of pipe extending from the water or wastewater main to the approximate location of the
property or easement boundary intended to provide direct retail service to a property.
(14) WASTEWATER INTERCEPTOR means a wastewater main generally considered to be 18-inches in diameter or larger and to which direct connections for
retail service to a property are not allowed, unless an exception is approved by the Director.
(15) WATER TRANSMISSION MAIN means a potable water main generally considered to be 24-inches in diameter or larger and to which direct connections
for retail service to a property are not allowed, unless an exception is approved by the Director.
Source: Section 13-3-9(b); Ord. 990225-70; Ord. 000406-87; Ord. 031211-11; Ord. 20090820-061; Ord. 20130321-065; Ord. No. 20240307-037, Pt. 6, 3-18-24.