ยง 25-2-723 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
(A) For a right-of-way described in Subsection (B), development of the right-of-way, including street, sidewalk, and drainage construction, must be compatible
with the development of adjacent park land and consistent with the Town Lake Park Plan. Factors to be considered in determining consistency with the
Town Lake Park Plan include park land access, road alignment, utility placement, sidewalk design, railing design, sign design and placement, landscaping,
and stormwater filtration.
(B) Subsection (A) applies to:
(1) public rights-of-way within or adjoining the boundaries of the WO combining district, including public rights-of-way for streets designated in the
Transportation Plan;
about:blank 157/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
(2) Trinity Street, from Cesar Chavez Street to Fifth Street; and
(3) Guadalupe Street and Lavaca Street, from Cesar Chavez Street to Fifth Street.
(C) For a street described in Subsection (D), streetscape improvements that are consistent with the Town Lake Park Plan are required. A streetscape
improvement is an improvement to a public right-of-way, and includes sidewalks, trees, light fixtures, signs, and furniture.
(D) Subsection (C) applies to:
(1) Barton Springs Road, from Congress Avenue to MoPac Freeway;
(2) Cesar Chavez Street, from MoPac Freeway to IH-35;
(3) Congress Avenue, from Riverside Drive to First Street;
(4) Grove Boulevard, from Pleasant Valley Road to Montopolis Drive;
(5) Guadalupe Street, from Cesar Chavez Street to Fifth Street;
(6) Lakeshore Boulevard, from Riverside Drive to Montopolis Drive;
(7) Lamar Boulevard, from the Union Pacific railroad overpass to Barton Springs Road;
(8) Lavaca Street, from Cesar Chavez Street to Fifth Street;
(9) South First Street, from Town Lake to Barton Springs Road; and
(10) Trinity Street, from Cesar Chavez Street to Fifth Street.
Source: Section 13-2-700.2; Ord. 990225-70; Ord. 031211-11.
Subpart C. - Subdistrict Regulations.