§ 2.3. - CONNECTIVITY BETWEEN SITES.
2.3.1. Improvements to Encourage Pedestrian, Bicycle, and Vehicular Connectivity.
A. Applicability. The following table summarizes the applicability of this section:
Standard Applies if the Principal Street Is: Applies to the Following:
2.3.1. Improvements to Encourage All roadway types - Projects with a net site area of three acres or
Pedestrian, Bicycle, and Vehicular more in all nonresidential zoning districts
Connectivity - Projects with a net site area of less than
three acres that have parking between the
building and the principal street in all zoning
districts
B. Standards.
1. Vehicular and Pedestrian Connections Between Sites. All sites or developments subject to this section shall:
a.
about:blank 268/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
Provide private drive or public street connections to existing private drives or public streets on adjacent sites, or stub-outs if connections are not feasible; and
b. Where a public street is adjacent to the property line, provide direct pedestrian and bicycle access from that street to a customer entrance.
The pedestrian and bicycle access points must be fully accessible during operating hours. (See Figure 31.)
(See Figure 31 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Example of a pedestrian/bicycle connection from sidewalk to building entrance.)
2. Additional Measures to Improve Connectivity. All sites or developments subject to this section shall select and comply with at least two of the
options in Table B below. However, if a site or development provides surface parking that amounts to more than 125 percent of the parking
previously required in Appendix A (Tables of Off-Street Loading Requirements and Former Off-Street Parking Requirements) to Chapter 25-6
(Transportation), the site or development must select and comply with at least three of the options in Table B below.
TABLE B: ADDITIONAL MEASURES TO IMPROVE CONNECTIVITY
Option Description/Comments
Provide additional pedestrian connections Pedestrian connections must be edged by curb, except where connections cross drive aisles,
from on-site buildings to adjacent streets. and should be evenly spaced. One point per pedestrian connection.
Provide pedestrian and bicycle connections Where public parkland is adjacent to the property line, provide pedestrian and bicycle access
from adjacent parkland. from the trail or walkway system on that parkland to the building entrance. The pedestrian and
bicycle access points must be fully accessible during operating hours and shall meet city
standards for pedestrian and bike ways.
Provide solar power shading devices in Devices shall comply with requirements of administrative rules on this subject.
parking lots.
Provide pedestrian and bicycle connection to If there is a residential development adjacent to the site, provide a pedestrian and bicycle
adjacent residential development. connection to the property line, and to an existing pathway if one is present on the adjacent
site. Compliance with this option also may include providing a sidewalk that connects the
project site to an adjacent residential development and that runs along a public roadway
where no sidewalk currently exists or where the existing sidewalk does not meet the width
standards in this Subchapter.
Exceed applicable sidewalk standards by Sidewalks along an ICR may not be used to satisfy this standard.
constructing a sidewalk along a public street
frontage to Core Transit Corridor standards.
Provide a public access easement for the Requires approval of the Director of Public Works.
construction of a multi-use trail connecting to
or proposed in the City of Austin Trails Master
Plan, Austin Parks and Recreation Lone-Range
Plan, Sidewalk Master Plan or Bicycle Path.
Incorporate a transit stop into the project. Review and approval of Capital Metro, or transit provider required.
Internal utility lines should be located in drive Do not locate utility lines beneath surface parking areas.
aisles or Internal Circulation Routes, rather
than under parking areas.
Limit curb cuts. Connections between site and adjacent arterials and highways occur no more frequently than
every 330 feet.
At least 10% of the provided parking is
underground or within a parking structure.
about:blank 269/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
Enhance physical fitness opportunities and To comply with this option, the site must meet the shower requirements of LDC Subsection 25-
multi-modal connectivity by providing shower 6-477(H).
and locker facilities for employees and
increase required bicycle parking by 10%.
Provide secure indoor bicycle storage in
building or parking structure.
For sites with a single building, provide
shaded sidewalks along 100% of building
facing the principal street.
Provide shaded sidewalks along 100% of all
publicly visible building façades.
Other options as approved by the Director.
Source: Ord. 20060831-068; Ord. 20130606-088; Ord. 20131017-046; Ord. No. 20231102-028, Pt. 28, 11-13-23; Ord. No. 20240201-035, Pt. 1, 2-12-24.