ยง 25-2-1407 - AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
(A) This section only applies to property that is subject to a NP combining district zoning or rezoning ordinance that applies the requirements of this section
under Section 25-2-1406 (Ordinance Requirements).
(B) A provision in this section applies only if:
(1) the director of the Neighborhood Housing and Community Development Department certifies that the development complies with the City's
S.M.A.R.T. Housing Program; and
(2) ten percent or more of the dwelling units are reserved for a period of not less than 20 years for rental or purchase by an occupant whose gross
household income does not exceed 60 percent of the median family income for the Austin metropolitan statistical area.
(C) This subsection applies in a single family residence standard lot (SF-2) district or single family residence (SF-3) district.
(1) The maximum impervious cover is 50 percent if the director of the Watershed Protection and Development Review Department determines that the
development will not result in additional identifiable adverse flooding on other property.
(2) A noncomplying structure may be replaced with a new structure if the new structure does not increase the existing degree of noncompliance with
yard setbacks.
(D) This subsection applies to a duplex residential use.
(1) The minimum lot area is 5,750 square feet.
(2) The maximum impervious cover is 50 percent if the director of the Watershed Protection and Development Review Department determines that the
development will not result in additional identifiable adverse flooding on other property.
(3) A maximum of eight bedrooms are permitted.
(E) This subsection applies to a two family residential use.
(1) The minimum lot area is 5,750 square feet.
(2)
about:blank 236/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
The maximum impervious cover is 50 percent if the director of the Watershed Protection and Development Review Department determines that the development
will not result in additional identifiable adverse flooding on other property.
(3) The second dwelling unit may not exceed a gross floor area of 850 square feet. All of the allowed gross floor area may be on the second story, if any.
The gross floor area limitation does not apply to a lot with 7,000 or more square feet of area.
(F) This subsection applies to a secondary apartment special use.
(1) The maximum impervious cover is 50 percent if the director of the Watershed Protection and Development Review Department determines that the
development will not result in additional identifiable adverse flooding on other property.
(2) The second dwelling unit may not exceed a gross floor area of 850 square feet. All of the allowed gross floor area may be on the second story, if any.
The gross floor area limitation does not apply to a lot with 7,000 or more square feet of area.
Source: Ord. 20080807-091.