§ 25-1-607 - SINGLE-FAMILY PARKLAND DEVELOPMENT FEE.
(A) Except as provided in Subsection (C), an applicant proposing single-family development must pay a parkland development fee as a condition to
subdivision or site plan approval to ensure that land is developed with recreational amenities sufficient for park use.
(B) The amount of the development fee is established in the annual fee schedule based on a recommendation by the director in accordance with this
subsection.
(1) Parkland Development Fee:
Density Classification Development Fee Amount
Low Density: Not more than 6 units per acre 2.8 × Park Development Cost Per Person
Medium Density: More than 6 and not more than 12 units per acre 2.2 × Park Development Cost Per Person
High Density: More than 12 units per acre 1.7 × Park Development Cost Per Person
(2) For purposes of determining the parkland development fee under Subdivision (B)(1):
Park Development Cost =
Park Development Cost Factor
Park Facilities Level-of-Service
where:
(a) "Park Development Cost Factor" is determined by the director based on the average cost of developing an acre of parkland up to the standards of
a neighborhood park; and
(b) "Park Facilities Level-of-Service" is:
City Population
Number of Developed Parks
where "City Population" is determined by the city demographer and "Number of Developed Parks" is the total number of parks developed with a
recreational amenity or trail, as determined by the director prior to adoption of the annual fee ordinance by the city council.
(C) The director may allow an applicant to construct recreational amenities on public parkland or private parkland, if applicable, in lieu of paying the
development fee required by this section. In order to utilize this option, the applicant must:
(1) post fiscal surety in an amount equal to the development fee;
(2) if a dedication of land is required, construct recreational amenities prior to the dedication in a manner consistent with the Parkland Dedication
Operating Procedures; and
(3) document the required amenities concurrent with subdivision or site plan approval, in a manner consistent with the Parkland Dedication Operating
Procedures.
about:blank 42/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
Source: Ord. No. 20231130-087, Pt. 2, 1-1-24.