ยง 25-2-672 - TOWN LAKE PARK REGULATIONS.
(A) Development of a natural area described in Section 25-2-671 (Town Lake Park Terms) is limited to:
(1) nature trails with interpretive signs and facilities;
(2) surface parking with pervious material;
(3) maintenance and improvement of environmental quality, including fencing and wildlife and vegetation management; and
(4) general park support and maintenance.
(B) Development of a neighborhood park described in Section 25-2-671 (Town Lake Park Terms) is limited to:
about:blank 150/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
(1) walking, exercise, and bicycle trails;
(2) surface parking and access roads;
(3) picnic facilities;
(4) general neighborhood park uses, including playing fields, ball courts, swimming pools, and playscapes;
(5) concessions primarily serving an adjacent neighborhood, including food vending, bicycle rentals, and sports equipment rentals;
(6) cultural facilities primarily serving an adjacent neighborhood;
(7) maintenance and improvement of environmental quality, including stream bank stabilization, fencing, and wildlife and vegetation management; and
(8) general park support and maintenance.
(C) Development of a community park described in Section 25-2-671 (Town Lake Park Terms) is limited to:
(1) development permitted in a neighborhood park;
(2) municipal swimming pools and associated facilities;
(3) concessions designed to attract individuals from throughout the city, including boat rentals, food vending, dining facilities, special sports facilities, and
special recreational facilities;
(4) surface parking and parking structures;
(5) performance and special events facilities;
(6) specialized facilities, including facilities that serve the handicapped, private nonprofit recreational facilities that serve the general public, and private
park enhancement facilities;
(7) an internal park road system, with grade-separated intersections if required;
(8) athletic facilities, including multipurpose sports fields and exercise courses;
(9) maintenance and improvement of environmental quality, including stream bank stabilization, fencing, and wildlife and vegetation management; and
(10) general park support and maintenance.
(D) Development of a cultural park described in Section 25-2-671 (Town Lake Park Terms) is limited to:
(1) cultural facilities and special event and performance areas;
(2) parking structures and limited surface parking;
(3) concessions that are designed to attract people from throughout the city, that are mobile, temporary, or located in a building described in the Town
Lake Park Plan, and that require a small amount of space, including pushcarts selling food or flowers, temporary vending stands for special events,
and museum gift shops;
(4) walking, exercise, and bicycle paths;
(5) an internal park transportation system;
(6) maintenance and improvement of environmental quality, including stream bank stabilization, fencing, and wildlife and vegetation management; and
(7) general park support and maintenance.
(E) Development of an urban waterfront described in Section 25-2-671 (Town Lake Park Terms) is limited to:
(1) plazas for performances and special events;
(2) wide sidewalks for walking, exercising, and bicycle riding;
(3) concessions that are designed to attract people from throughout the city, are mobile, temporary, or located in a building described in the Town Lake
Park Plan, and require a small amount of space, including pushcarts selling food or flowers, temporary vending stands for special events, and
museum gift shops;
(4) rowing facilities, boathouses, and similar water-related activities;
(5) maintenance and improvement of environmental quality, including stream bank stabilization, fencing, and wildlife and vegetation management; and
(6) general park support and maintenance.
(F) Development of an area of Town Lake Park not included in a natural area, neighborhood park, community park, cultural park, or urban waterfront
described in Section 25-2-671 (Town Lake Park Terms) is limited to:
(1) walking, exercise, and bicycle trails;
(2) picnic facilities;
(3) surface parking of pervious material and park access roads; and
(4) general park support and maintenance.
(G) This section does not apply to a community events use.
Source: Section 13-2-228.1; Ord. 990225-70; Ord. 990902-57; Ord. 031211-11.
Division 7. - Waterfront Overlay District and Subdistrict Uses.
about:blank 151/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code