ยง 25-1-712 - TENANT NOTIFICATION REQUIRED.
(A) The requirements of this section apply to:
(1) an application to:
(a)
about:blank 47/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
demolish, alter, or repair the interior or exterior of one or more residential units at a multi-family property that would result in the displacement of one or more
tenants, including a demolition permit or a building permit;
(b) approve a site plan or change of use permit for an existing mobile home park; or
(c) rezone a property within the Mobile Home Residence (MH) District designation that contains an existing mobile home park; or
(2) unpermitted redevelopment that results in displacement of one or more tenants either before or after unpermitted redevelopment occurs.
(B) Notification Timelines.
(1) an applicant must provide tenant notification prior to submittal of the application in accordance with the timelines established under this subsection.
(2) to demonstrate that required notification was provided prior to submittal of an application, the applicant must include a certified statement, on a
form approved by the director, confirming that all tenants received notification required under this section within the following timeframes:
(a) for a multi-family property, at least 120 days prior to the date application for a building permit or a demolition permit was submitted; or
(b) for a mobile home park, at least 270 days prior to the date the application for a rezone, site plan, or change of use permit was submitted.
(C) The notification required by this section must be on a form approved by the director and must:
(1) be delivered:
(a) by the applicant or the applicant's representative, or by registered or certified mail, with return receipt requested;
(b) to all units:
(i) proposed for demolition in a multi-family property under a permit application for which notice is required under Subsection (A)(1)(a) of this
section; or
(ii) located in a mobile home park included in a rezone, change of use, or site plan application for which notice is required under Subsections (A)
(1)(b), (c) of this section; or
(c) in a manner authorized by the director; and
(2) include the following information, in English, Spanish, and such other language as may be required by the director:
(a) the applicant's name and contact information;
(b) a description of the development application for which notification is required under Subsection (A) of this section;
(c) a statement that the application may be reviewed on or after the 120th or 270th day, whichever applies, following receipt of the notice and may
result in displacement of tenants;
(d) a description of any tenant relocation assistance that may be available under Section 25-1-714 (Tenant Relocation Program), including income
eligibility requirements and forms for requesting assistance;
(e) information regarding applicable school district policies relating to district residency requirements;
(f) information regarding the requirements of state law for return of security deposits;
(g) information regarding the availability of fee waivers from Austin Energy for obtaining utility service at a new residence where relocation is
required due to displacement;
(h) other information as may be required by the director, including programs and services to assistant displaced tenants; and
(3) be on a form provided by the director, which shall be uniform for all applicants except that the director may require an additional language as
provided under Paragraph (2).
(D) If an applicant requests an extension of a permit for which notification under this section is required, the applicant must provide renotification to tenants
consistent with the requirements for a new application.
(E) A landowner or landowner's agent must provide notification that complies with Subsection (C) prior to unpermitted redevelopment. In this subsection,
prior to unpermitted redevelopment means:
(1) for a multi-family property, at least 120 days before unpermitted redevelopment begins; and
(2) for a mobile home park, at least 270 days before unpermitted redevelopment begins.
Source: 20160901-050, Pt. 4, 9-12-16; Ord. No. 20220421-058, Pt. 2, 4-21-22; Ord. No. 20230831-103, Pt. 3, 9-11-23.