§ 25-2-721 - WATERFRONT OVERLAY (WO) COMBINING DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
(A) This subsection provides requirements for review and approval of site plans.
(1) Approval of a site plan by the Land Use Commission is required if an applicant requests a waiver from a requirement of this part under Section 25-2-
713 (Variances).
(2) Review of a site plan by the director of the Parks and Recreation Department is required before the site plan may be approved. The director of the
Parks and Recreation Department shall determine:
(a) whether the site plan is compatible with adopted park design guidelines; and
(b) if significant historic, cultural, or archaeological sites are located on the property.
(3) The Land Use Commission shall request a recommendation from the Small Area Planning Joint Committee of the Planning Commission and the
Zoning and Platting Commission before approving or denying a site plan within the Waterfront Overlay combining district and shall consider the
recommendation provided by the board. If the board fails to make a recommendation as required under Section 25-2-715 (Review and
Recommendation of the Small Area Planning Joint Committee of the Planning Commission and the Zoning and Platting Commission), the Land Use
Commission may approve or deny the site plan without a recommendation.
about:blank 156/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
(4) The Land Use Commission shall request a recommendation from the Environmental Board before approving or denying a site plan within the
Waterfront Overlay combining district and shall consider the recommendation provided by the board. If the Environmental Board fails to make a
recommendation, the Land Use Commission may approve or deny the site plan without a recommendation.
(B) In a primary setback area:
(1) except as otherwise provided in this subsection, parking areas and structures are prohibited; and
(2) park facilities, including picnic tables, observation decks, trails, gazebos, and pavilions, are permitted if:
(a) the park facilities are located on public park land; and
(b) the impervious cover does not exceed 15 percent.
(C) In a secondary setback area:
(1) fountains, patios, terraces, outdoor restaurants, and similar uses are permitted; and
(2) impervious cover may not exceed 30 percent.
(D) This subsection provides requirements for parking areas.
(1) Surface parking:
(a) must be placed along roadways, if practicable; and
(b) must be screened from views from Town Lake, the Colorado River, park land, and the creeks named in this part.
(2) A parking structure that is above grade:
(a) must be on a pedestrian scale and either architecturally integrated with the associated building or screened from views from Town Lake, the
Colorado River, park land, and the creeks named in this part; and
(b) if it is adjacent to Town Lake, the Colorado River, park land, or a creek named in this part, it must incorporate pedestrian oriented uses at ground
level.
(3) Setback requirements do not apply to a parking structure that is completely below grade.
(E) This subsection provides design standards for buildings.
(1) Exterior mirrored glass and glare producing glass surface building materials are prohibited.
(2) Except in the City Hall subdistrict, a distinctive building top is required for a building that exceeds a height of 45 feet. Distinctive building tops include
cornices, steeped parapets, hipped roofs, mansard roofs, stepped terraces, and domes. To the extent required to comply with the requirements of
Chapter 13-1, Article 4 (Heliports and Helicopter Operations), a flat roof is permitted.
(3) Except in the City Hall subdistrict, a building basewall is required for a building that fronts on Town Lake, Shoal Creek, or Waller Creek, that adjoins
public park land or Town Lake, or that is across a street from public park land. The basewall may not exceed a height of 45 feet.
(4) A building façade may not extend horizontally in an unbroken line for more than 160 feet.
(F) Underground utility service is required, unless otherwise determined by the utility provider.
(G) Trash receptacles, air conditioning or heating equipment, utility meters, loading areas, and external storage must be screened from public view.
Source: Section 13-2-700; Ord. 990225-70; Ord. 990715-115; Ord. 010607-8; Ord. 031211-11; Ord. 20090611-074; Ord. No. 20141211-204, Pt. 25, 7-1-15.