ยง 25-9-382 - DEFINITIONS.
In this article:
(1) APPROVED USE means an application of reclaimed water authorized by a reclaimed water agreement.
(2) APPROVED USE AREA means a site designated in a reclaimed water agreement to receive reclaimed water for an approved use.
(3) COMMISSION means the Texas Natural Resources Conservation Commission.
(4) DRAWINGS mean plans, working drawings, detail drawings, profiles, typical cross sections, or reproductions that show locations, character,
dimensions, or details of work related to a reclaimed water system and its components.
(5) INDUSTRIAL USE means an approved use of reclaimed water for industrial or commercial processes as defined by 30 Texas Administrative Code,
Chapter 210.
(6) IRRIGATION USE means an approved use of reclaimed water for landscape, horticultural, or agricultural irrigation as defined by 30 Texas
Administrative Code, Chapter 210.
(7) MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER means wastewater collected from dwelling units, commercial buildings, and institutions including process wastes of
industry, groundwater infiltration, miscellaneous waste liquids, spent water from building water supply, and waste materials from bathrooms,
kitchens and laundries.
(8) OFFSITE FACILITIES means reclaimed water distribution, storage, or delivery facilities upstream of the point of connection to an approved use area.
(9) ONSITE FACILITIES means reclaimed water distribution facilities downstream of the point of connection to an approved use area.
(10) POINT OF CONNECTION means a location where offsite facilities connect to onsite facilities, at the downstream end of the Utility's reclaimed water
service meter.
(11) RECLAIMED WATER SERVICE means furnishing reclaimed water to a user through a metered connection to onsite facilities.
(12) RECLAIMED WATER means reclaimed municipal wastewater that is under the direct control of the City treatment plants, satellite facilities, or a
treatment plant with which the City contracts, and that has been treated to a quality that meets or exceeds 30 Texas Administrative Code, Chapter
210 requirements.
(13) SATELLITE FACILITY means a package wastewater treatment plant.
(14) SERVICE AREA means the territory within the City and within its extraterritorial jurisdiction.
(15) STORAGE FACILITY means an impoundment or structural tank that receives reclaimed water from a producer.
(16) USER means a party to a reclaimed water agreement with the City.
(17) UTILITY means the Water and Wastewater Utility.
(18) UTILITY STANDARD means a design criterion of the City, American Water Works Association, or the Commission.
(19) WATER RIGHT means a real property right to divert, use, or consume water flowing to, over, or under land.
Source: Ord. 001214-70; Ord. 031211-11.