ยง 25-2-1217 - STREET CONSTRUCTION; TRAFFIC ACCESS AND CIRCULATION; PARKING.
(A) A mobile home park owner or licensee shall construct and maintain internal streets in the park at the owner or licensee's expense.
about:blank 230/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
(B) A park owner or licensee shall install parking control signs, street name signs, and other traffic control devices in the park at the owner's or licensee's
expense.
(C) Internal streets shall be designed for safe and convenient access to each space and to the common-use facilities for park residents and internal streets
shall be kept free of obstruction.
(D) The Austin Police Department may issue a citation for a violation of this division and may impound vehicles occupying the park in violation of this division.
(E) The owner or licensee shall erect metal signs indicating that parking is prohibited on all sections of internal streets on which parking is prohibited. The
sign type, size, height, and location must be approved by the city manager before installation.
(F) An internal street shall be designed by a licensed professional engineer in compliance with the Transportation Criteria Manual and must be approved by
the director before construction. Internal streets shall be maintained by the owner or licensee free of cracks, holes, or other hazards.
(G) An internal street must be designed and constructed in a manner that provides that no portion of a mobile home is more than 200 feet from the internal
street.
(H) All streets in a park shall be named and mobile home spaces numbered to conform with block numbers on adjacent public streets. All street name signs
must be of a reflective material and shall be of a color and size contrasting with those on public streets. House numbers shall be of reflective material. All
street signs and mobile home space numbers in a park shall be of standard size and placement to facilitate locating addresses by emergency vehicles.
(I) Interior streets shall intersect adjoining public streets at approximately 90 degree angles and at locations that eliminate or minimize interference with
traffic on the public streets.
Source: Section 13-2-952; Ord. 990225-70; Ord. 031211-11; Ord. 20060504-039.