ยง 25-2-714 - ADDITIONAL FLOOR AREA.
(A) In the WO combining district, a structure may exceed the maximum floor area permitted in the base district as provided by this section.
(1) Additional floor area under Subsection (B) is limited to 60 percent of the base district maximum.
(2) Additional floor area under Subsection (C), (D), (E), (F), (G), (H), or (I) is limited to 20 percent of the base district maximum.
(3) Total additional floor area under this section is limited to 60 percent of the base district maximum.
(B) For a structure in a neighborhood office (NO) or less restrictive base district, floor area for a residential use is permitted in addition to the maximum floor
area otherwise permitted.
(C) For a structure in a multifamily residence limited density (MF-1) or less restrictive base district, floor area for pedestrian-oriented uses is permitted in
addition to the maximum floor area otherwise permitted, if the pedestrian-oriented uses are on the ground floor of the structure and have unimpeded
public access from a public right-of-way or park land. The pedestrian-oriented uses required under Sections 25-2-692 (Waterfront Overlay (WO)
Subdistrict Uses) and Subpart C (Subdistrict Regulations) are excluded from the additional floor area permitted under this subsection.
(D) Except in the North Shore Central subdistrict:
(1) an additional one-half square foot of gross floor area is permitted for each one square foot of gross floor area of a parking structure that is above
grade; and
about:blank 155/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
(2) an additional one square foot of gross floor area is permitted for each one square foot of a parking structure that is below grade.
(E) Additional gross floor area is permitted for each existing Category A tree, as determined by the Watershed Protection and Development Review
Department's tree evaluation system, that is either left undisturbed or transplanted under the supervision of the city arborist.
(1) A tree is considered undisturbed under this subsection if the area within a circle centered on the trunk with a circumference equal to the largest
horizontal circumference of the tree's crown is undisturbed.
(2) A tree may be transplanted off-site if the Land Use Commission determines that the character of the site is preserved and approves the transplanting.
(3) The permitted additional gross floor area is calculated by multiplying the undisturbed area described in Subsection (E)(1) by the base district height
limitation and dividing the product by 12.
(F) Additional gross floor area is permitted for land or an easement dedicated to the City for public access to Town Lake or the Colorado River. The additional
gross floor area is calculated by multiplying the square footage of the access area by the height limitation applicable to the property and dividing the
product by 12.
(G) Additional gross floor area is permitted for land that is restricted to create a side yard or restricted public access to Town Lake, the Colorado River, or a
creek. The additional gross floor area is calculated by multiplying the square footage of the restricted area by the height limitation applicable to the
property and dividing the product by 12.
(H) An additional one square foot of gross floor area is permitted for each one square foot of area restricted to create a scenic vista of Town Lake, the
Colorado River, or a creek.
(I) For a proposal to develop less than the maximum allowable impervious cover, an additional one square foot of gross floor area is permitted for each one
square foot of impervious cover less than the allowable maximum.
Source: Section 13-2-703; Ord. 990225-70; Ord. 010329-18; Ord. 010607-8; Ord. 031211-11.