ยง 25-1-601 - GENERAL PROVISIONS.
(A) The City of Austin has determined that recreational areas in the form of public parks are necessary for the well-being of residents. The City has further
determined that the approval of new residential development is reasonably related to the need for additional parkland and park amenities to serve new
development. This article establishes the method for determining the amount of parkland dedication to be required as a condition to the approval of new
development.
(B) Before receiving approval for a development application, an applicant shall provide for the parkland needs of the new residents.
(C) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the parkland dedication requirements of this article apply to:
about:blank 37/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
(1) a subdivision that includes residential units or a hotel-motel use within the planning jurisdiction;
(2) a site plan within the zoning jurisdiction that includes residential units or a hotel-motel use; and
(3) a building permit for development that:
(a) at the time of subdivision or site plan approval, was deemed exempt from parkland dedication based on the assumption that development within
the subdivision would be limited to non-residential uses; or
(b) is proposing additional residential units that exceed the number of units for which parkland dedication was previously provided for.
(D) The following are exempt from the requirements of this article:
(1) a subdivision or site plan for which parkland was previously dedicated or payment made under this title, except for the dwelling units that exceed the
number for which dedication or payment was made;
(2) development within the City's extraterritorial jurisdiction that is within Travis County and governed by Title 30 (Austin/Travis County Subdivision
Regulations);
(3) dwelling units that are certified under the S.M.A.R.T. Housing Policy approved by the city council; or
(4) dwelling units that are income-restricted under a municipal, county, state, or federal program.
(E) The following definitions apply throughout this article:
(1) CONSUMER PRICE INDEX means the Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers (CPI-U), U.S. City Average, published by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics of the United States Department of Labor or its successor in function.
(2) DEFICIENT PARK AREA MAP means a map depicting areas that the director has determined lack sufficient parkland based on locational criteria
established by the Parkland Dedication Operating Procedures and the parkland policies of the Imagine Austin Comprehensive Plan.
(3) DIRECTOR means the director of the Parks and Recreation Department.
(4) DISTRICT PARK means a park of 31 to 199 acres with a two-mile service area.
(5) GEOGRAPHIC AREA means the City's designation of land within its municipal boundaries as a suburban area, urban area, or central business district
area for determining the amount of multi-family parkland dedication fee required.
(6) GOLF COURSE means a city-operated golf course open for public use including 9 or 18 holes.
(7) GREENWAYS means a multi-functional linear park that:
(a) links two or more separate parks;
(b) serves as a wildlife corridor;
(c) provides flood control; or
(d) contains routes for non-motorized vehicles.
(8) LAND VALUE means the market value of land per acre, not including an improvement to the land.
(9) METRO PARK means a park of 200 or more acres that serves the entire city.
(10) MEDIAN FAMILY INCOME means the United States Census Bureau's most recent American Community Survey five-year estimate of median family
income for all families within the applicable municipality.
(11) MULTI-FAMILY means a residential use other than a detached single-family or two-family dwelling. This use also includes hotel and motel rooms
ordinarily used for sleeping.
(12) NEIGHBORHOOD PARK means a park of two to thirty acres with a one-mile service area.
(13) PARKLAND DEDICATION URBAN CORE means an area bound by Highway 71/Ben White Boulevard to the south; Highway 183 to the east and north;
Loop 1 (MOPAC) on the west to FM 2222; FM 2222 on the north to Loop 360; Loop 360 on the west to Lake Austin; Lake Austin on the west to Loop 1
(MOPAC); and Loop 1 (MOPAC) on the west to Highway 71 (Ben White).
(14) POCKET PARK means a park of no more than two acres with a one- quarter mile service area.
(15) SINGLE-FAMILY means a residential use consisting of detached single-family or two units.
(F) Development within a Planned Unit Development (PUD) zoning district may, if required by the ordinance adopting the PUD, be subject to additional
parkland requirements and may be entitled to count dedicated parkland towards meeting open space requirements under Chapter 25-2, Article 2,
Subchapter B, Division 5 (Planned Unit Developments).
Source: Ord. No. 20231130-087, Pt. 2, 1-1-24.