§ 25-8-27 - REDEVELOPMENT EXCEPTION IN THE WATER SUPPLY RURAL AND WATER SUPPLY SUBURBAN WATERSHEDS.
(A) This section applies to property located in a water supply rural or water supply suburban watershed that has existing commercial development or existing
residential development with greater than two dwelling units per lot if:
(1) any development constructed without a permit after January 1, 1992, will be removed from the site and the area restored to pre-development
conditions; and
(2) the applicant files a site plan application or concurrent subdivision and site plan applications and elects to be governed by this section.
(B) In this section, STANDARD POND means water quality controls that comply with Section 25-8-213 (Water Quality Control Standards) or are approved
under Section 25-8-151 (Innovative Management Practices).
(C) The requirements of this subchapter do not apply to the redevelopment of property if the redevelopment meets all of the following conditions:
(1) The redevelopment may not increase the existing amount of impervious cover on the site.
(2) The redevelopment may not increase non-compliance, if any, with Article 7, Division 1 (Critical Water Quality Zone Restrictions), Section 25-8-281
(Critical Environmental Features), Section 25-8-282 (Wetland Protection), Section 25-8-422 (Water Quality Transition Zone), or Section 25-8-452 (Water
Quality Transition Zone).
(3) The redevelopment must remove any existing impervious cover from within 50 feet of the centerline of a classified waterway or 50 feet from the
shoreline of a lake, unless necessary for allowable shoreline access, boat dock, or shoreline modification, and revegetate the area as prescribed in the
Environmental Criteria Manual.
(4) The redevelopment must comply with Article 3 (Environmental Resource Inventory; Pollutant Attenuation Plan) and all construction phase
environmental requirements in effect at the time of construction, including Chapter 25-8, Article 5 (Erosion and Sedimentation Control; Overland
Flow).
(5) The water quality controls for the redeveloped areas or an equivalent area on the site must provide a level of water quality treatment that is equal to
or greater than that which was previously provided. At a minimum, the site must provide standard ponds for the redeveloped area or an equivalent
area on the site.
(6) The applicant must mitigate the effects of the redevelopment, if required by and in accordance with Subsection (D).
(7) Redevelopment may not be located within the Erosion Hazard Zone, unless protective works are provided as prescribed in the Drainage Criteria
Manual.
(D) Redevelopment of property under this section requires the purchase or restriction of mitigation land.
(1)
about:blank 419/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
The combined impervious cover of the mitigation land and the portion of the redevelopment treated by sedimentation/filtration ponds may not exceed 20 percent
of gross site area if in a water supply rural watershed or 40 percent of gross site area if in a water supply suburban watershed.
(2) The mitigation requirement may be satisfied by:
(a) paying into the Water Supply Mitigation Fund a nonrefundable amount established by ordinance;
(b) transferring to the City in accordance with Paragraph (3) mitigation land approved by the director within a water supply rural or water supply
suburban watershed, either inside or outside the City's jurisdiction;
(c) placing restrictions in accordance with Paragraph (3) on mitigation land approved by the director within a water supply rural or water supply
suburban watershed, either inside or outside the City's jurisdiction; or
(d) a combination of the mitigation methods described in Subparagraphs (a)—(c), if approved by the director.
(3) An applicant redeveloping under this section shall pay all costs of restricting the mitigation land or transferring the mitigation land to the City,
including the costs of:
(a) an environmental site assessment without any recommendations for further clean-up, certified to the City not earlier than the 120th day before
the closing date transferring land to the City;
(b) a category 1(a) land title survey, certified to the City and the title company not earlier than the 120th day before the closing date transferring land
to the City;
(c) a title commitment with copies of all Schedules B and C documents, and an owner's title policy;
(d) a fee simple deed, or, for a restriction, a restrictive covenant approved as to form by the City Attorney;
(e) taxes prorated to the closing date;
(f) recording fees; and
(g) charges or fees collected by the title company.
(H) The Watershed Protection Department shall adopt rules to identify criteria under this section to ensure that the proposed mitigation, manner of
development, and water quality controls offset the potential environmental impact of the redevelopment.
Source: Ord. 20131017-046; Ord. No. 20170615-102, Pt. 9, 6-15-17; Ord. No. 20221027-045, Pt. 8, 11-7-22.
Division 3. - Variances.