ยง 25-2-5 - INDUSTRIAL USES DESCRIBED.
(A) Industrial uses include the on-site extraction or production of goods by non-agricultural methods, and the storage and distribution of products.
(B) Industrial use classifications are described as follows:
(1) BASIC INDUSTRY use is the use of a site for:
(a) the basic processing and manufacturing of materials or products predominately from extracted or raw materials;
(b) storage or manufacturing processes that involve flammable or explosive materials; or
(c) storage or manufacturing processes that involve hazardous or commonly recognized offensive conditions, including poultry processing.
(2) CUSTOM MANUFACTURING use is the use of a site for on-site production of goods by the use of hand tools, domestic mechanical equipment not
exceeding five horsepower, or a single kiln not exceeding 12 kilowatts, and the incidental sale of those goods. This use includes candle-making shops
and custom jewelry manufacturing.
(3) GENERAL WAREHOUSING AND DISTRIBUTION use is open-air storage, distribution, or handling of materials or equipment. This use includes
monument or stone yards, grain elevators, and open storage yards.
(4) LIGHT MANUFACTURING use is the use of a site for manufacture, predominantly from previously prepared materials, of finished products or parts,
including processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment, and packaging of the products, and incidental storage, sales, and distribution of the products.
This use excludes basic industrial processing.
(5) LIMITED WAREHOUSING AND DISTRIBUTION use is the use of a site for provision of wholesaling, storage, or warehousing services within an enclosed
structure. This use includes wholesale distributors, storage warehouses, and moving or storage firms.
(6) RECYCLING CENTER use is the use of a site for collection, transfer, or processing of recyclable materials. Recyclable materials include glass, paper,
plastic, cans, or other source-separated, nonputrescible materials. This use excludes bulk or single-feed reverse vending machines.
(7) RESOURCE EXTRACTION use is the use of a site for on-site extraction of surface or sub-surface mineral products or natural resources. This use
includes quarries, borrow pits, sand or gravel operations, oil or gas extraction, and mining operations.
(8) STOCKYARDS use is the use of a site for temporary keeping of livestock for slaughter, market, or shipping. This use includes stockyards, animal sales,
and auction yards.
Source: Section 13-2-4; Ord. 990225-70; Ord. 031211-11; Ord. 040617-Z-1.