ยง 25-11-214 - PENDENCY OF DESIGNATION.
(A) A building, structure, or site is subject to this article if a designation as a historic landmark is pending. A permit issued for abuilding, structure, or site
while a designation as a historic landmark is pending is void.
(B) A designation is pending under Subsection (A) on the occurrence of the earliest of the following:
(1) two members of the Commission direct the historic preservation officer in writing to place the building, structure, or site on the Commission's agenda
for consideration of whether the building, structure, or site should be designated as a historic landmark; or
(2) Commission agenda is posted that includes Commission consideration of whether the building, structure, or site should be designated as a historic
landmark.
(3) a Commission agenda is posted that includes Commission consideration of an application for a demolition, relocation, or building permit concerning
the building, structure, or site.
(C) A written order issued by a member of the Commission under Section (B)(1) must address:
(1) whether the structure should be considered for historic zoning;
(2) whether the status quo of the structure should be maintained pending historic zoning proceedings; and
(3) whether, if the status quo is not maintained pending historic zoning proceedings, the zoning of the structure as historic may become moot.
(D) A designation is no longer pending if:
(1) the Commission issues a final certificate of appropriateness, or a demolition, relocation, or building permit, as applicable;
(2) the Commission does not make a final decision on whether to recommend designation of the structure as a historic landmark by the 75th day after
the date of the first Commission meeting at which an item is posted on the agenda for action on an application for demolition, relocation, or historic
zoning;
(3) the Commission makes a final decision to recommend that the structure not be designated a historic landmark; or
(4) the council makes a final decision not to designate the structure as a historic landmark.
(E) The historic preservation officer shall provide the building official with a copy of each written order, agenda, or preservation plan described in Subsection
(B), as promptly as practicable. The failure to do so does not validate a building permit, relocation permit, or demolition permit issued without notice of
the written order or agenda.
(F) If a permit from the City is not required for the change to the structure, the historic preservation officer must provide notice to the owner of the structure
of a written order, or agenda that applies to the change.
(1) Notice under this subsection may be oral or written.
(2) Notice under this subsection is effective:
(a) when actually given; or
about:blank 517/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
(b) when sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the owner.
(G) An applicant or owner entitled to notice under this section may appeal the Commission action under this section to the council consistent with the
requirements of Chapter 25-1, Article 7, Division 1 (Appeals).
Source: Section 13-2-762; Ord. 990225-70; Ord. 031211-11; 20090806-068.