§ 25-1-606 - SINGLE-FAMILY FEE IN LIEU OF PARKLAND DEDICATION.
(A) For single-family development, the director may require or allow an applicant to deposit with the City a fee in lieu of parkland dedication under Section
25-1-602 (Single-Family Dedication of Parkland) if:
(1) the director determines that payment of a fee in lieu of dedication is justified under the criteria in Subsection (B) of this section; and
(2) the following additional requirements are met:
(a) less than six acres is required to be dedicated under Section 25-1-602 (Single-Family Dedication of Parkland); or
(b) the land available for dedication does not comply with the standards for dedication under Section 25-1-604 (Standards for Dedicated Parkland).
(B) In determining whether to require dedication of land under Section 25-1-602 (Single-Family Dedication of Parkland) or allow payment of a fee in lieu of
dedication under this section, the director shall consider whether the subdivision or site plan:
(1) is located within the Deficient Park Area Map;
(2) is adjacent to existing parkland;
(3) has sufficient acreage to meet the standards for dedicated parkland under the Parkland Dedication Operating Procedures;
(4) is needed to address a critical need for parkland or to remedy a deficiency identified by the Deficient Park Area Map; or
(5) would provide increased connectivity with existing or planned parks or recreational amenities.
(C) The amount of the fee in lieu of parkland is established in the annual fee schedule based on a recommendation by the director in accordance with this
subsection.
(1) Single-Family Fee In Lieu of Dedication:
Density Classification Fee In Lieu Amount
Low Density: Not more than 6 units per acre 2.8 × Land Cost Per Person
Medium Density: More than 6 and not more than 12 units per acre 2.2 × Land Cost Per Person
High Density: More than 12 units per acre 1.7 × Land Cost Per Person
(2) For purposes of determining the amount of single-family fee in lieu under Subdivision (D)(1):
Land Cost Per Person =
Parkland Cost Factor
Parkland Level-of-Service
about:blank 41/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
where:
(a) "Parkland Cost Factor" is determined by the director based on the average purchase price to the City for acquiring an acre of parkland, excluding a
metro or district park or golf course; and
(b) "Parkland Level-of-Service" is:
City Population
Net Park Acreage
where "City Population" is determined by the city demographer and "Net Park Acreage" is the total citywide acreage of neighborhood parks,
pocket parks, and greenways, as determined by the director prior to adoption of the annual fee ordinance by the city council.
(D) If the director determines that payment of a fee in lieu of parkland dedication is authorized under this section for only a portion of the land required to be
dedicated under Section 25-1-602 (Single-Family Dedication of Parkland), the director may allow an applicant to pay a fee in lieu for that portion and
require that the remaining land be dedicated. If an applicant dedicates parkland under Section 25-1-602 (Single-Family Dedication of Parkland), the
director may not include that acreage in calculating the fee in lieu required by this section for any remaining land not included in the dedication.
Source: Ord. No. 20231130-087, Pt. 2, 1-1-24.