ยง 25-6-1 - DEFINITIONS.
In this chapter:
(1) BILLIARD PARLOR is an establishment that devotes over 50 percent of its gross floor area to tables and playing area intended for billiards, pool,
snooker, or similar games.
(2) BOWLING ALLEY is an establishment that devotes over 50 percent of its gross floor area to bowling lanes, equipment, and playing area.
(3) DRIVE-THROUGH LUBRICATION SERVICE is an establishment primarily engaged in the provision of lubricants, including oil change facilities, to motor
vehicles by means of drive-through service bays. The term excludes service stations primarily engaged in the dispensing of motor fuel.
(4) FURNITURE OR CARPET STORE is an establishment engaged in the sale or service of home or office furnishings or carpeting. The term excludes
furniture or carpet departments of general retail stores, furniture rental establishments, and establishments engaged primarily in the sale or service
of specialty household furnishings including lighting fixtures, mirrors, antiques, appliances, or household electronic equipment.
(5) GROSS LEASABLE AREA is the total floor area designed for tenant occupancy in a shopping center or regional shopping mall, including areas used for
storage and areas within mall walkways that are used for sales. The area of tenant occupancy is measured from the center lines of joint partitions to
the outside of the tenant walls.
(6) LIVE THEATER is a building or structure, the primary purpose of which is the commercial presentation of plays or other dramatic performances to an
audience.
(7) MEDICAL FACILITY means a building or structure where the primary purpose is for:
(a) hospital services (general);
(b) hospital services (limited); or
(c) medical offices, if the building or structure is a walk-in clinic being used for the consultation, diagnosis, therapeutic, preventative, or medical care
for minor illnesses and injuries.
(8) MOTION PICTURE THEATER is a building or structure, the primary purpose of which is the commercial presentation of motion pictures to an audience.
(9) PEDESTRIAN ENTRANCE means a functional entrance or door that is publicly accessible and designed for pedestrian use.
(10) REGIONAL SHOPPING MALL means a single building containing over 600,000 square feet of gross leasable area and enclosing two or more stores with
main entrances from a covered common pedestrian area. Typical uses include general retail sales (general), general retail sales (convenience), food
sales, personal services, and restaurants.
(11) SHOPPING CENTER is a group of architecturally unified commercial establishments built on a site that is planned, developed, owned, and managed as
an operating unit. Typical uses in a shopping center include general retail sales (general), general retail sales (convenience), food sales, personal
services, and restaurants.
(12) SITE IMPROVEMENT means an improvement or facility for the primary use, operation, safety, or other benefit of a development for which the
developer or property owner is solely responsible under applicable development regulations.
(13) SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT means an improvement or facility that is not a site improvement.
(14) TRANSPORTATION PLAN means the Austin Metropolitan Area Transportation Plan, or its successor plan, and other multi-modal transportation plans
referenced in the Imagine Austin Comprehensive Plan, including the CAMPO Mobility Plan, Sidewalk Master Plan, Bicycle Plan, Urban Trails Plan, and
adopted corridor plans.
(15) TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM means an individual component of the overall transportation network designed for the movement of people and goods,
including arterials and collector streets, sidewalks, trails, and other multi-modal transportation facilities identified in the Transportation Plan.
Source: Section 13-5-95.1; Ord. 990225-70; Ord. 031211-11; Ord. No. 20170302-077, Pt. 1, 3-13-17; Ord. No. 20241212-074, Pt. 1, 12-23-24.