ยง 25-11-38 - ASBESTOS SURVEY REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN PERMITS.
about:blank 508/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
(A) In this section, "asbestos survey" means an inspection, by an individual licensed by the state to perform the inspection, of a building or facility to
determine the location, quantity, and condition of asbestos containing material in the building by taking samples for analysis and by visual inspection.
(B) The building official may not issue a permit to a person for the demolition or renovation of a building unless an asbestos survey has been conducted of
the areas of the building affected by the proposed renovation or demolition. A person seeking a permit must provide evidence of the survey to the
building official.
(C) This section does not apply to:
(1) a building owned by the state or federal government;
(2) an industrial facility to which access is limited principally to employees of the facility because of processes or functions that are hazardous to human
safety or health;
(3) a manufacturing facility or building that is limited to workers and invited guests under controlled conditions;
(4) a building, or any portion of a building that a professional engineer, a registered architect, or a city, county, or state government official determines to
be structurally unsound and in danger of imminent collapse; or
(5) a single family dwelling, or a residential use with four or fewer units.
(D) A person who obtains a survey of a building in its entirety is not required to obtain additional surveys for subsequent renovations or demolitions of the
building.
(E) Instead of a criminal prosecution under this section, the building official may impose a civil penalty not to exceed $2,000 for each instance of a violation of
this section. The building official may impose a separate penalty for each day that a violation continues. The city attorney may initiate a civil action to
recover a penalty owed under this section.
(F) A person commits an offense if the person begins, conducts, or continues demolition or renovation operations without an asbestos survey required by
this section. A culpable mental state is not required, and need not be proved, for an offense under this section. Each instance of a violation under this
section is a separate offense. Each day that a violation continues is a separate offense. An offense is punishable by a fine not to exceed $2,000.
Source: Ord. 010329-49; Ord. 031211-11.