§ 25-10-101 - GENERAL ON-PREMISE SIGNS.
(A) Purpose and Applicability. This section establishes general requirements for on-premise signs associated with particular land uses. A sign allowed under
this section:
(1) must comply with all applicable regulations of this chapter and the Building Code, but may be installed or modified without obtaining a permit or
other approval from the City; and
(2) is in addition to other signs allowed by this section or by another provision of this chapter.
(B) Signs for Commercial, Multi-Family, Civic and Industrial Uses. Unless specifically limited to a particular use, the following signs are allowed on a site
containing any lawfully permitted commercial, multi-family, civic, or industrial use:
(1) A freestanding or wall sign, such as those typically used to direct the movement or placement of vehicular or pedestrian traffic, provided that:
(a) no more than one sign is allowed for each building or curb cut;
(b) sign area may not exceed 12 square feet; and
(c) sign height may not exceed:
(i) four feet, for a freestanding sign; or
(ii) the height of the building facade, for a wall sign.
(2) Outside of the low-density or multifamily residential sign districts, one or more small wall signs, such as emblems and decals typically associated with
on-premise goods, services or facilities, which may not exceed a total of six square feet per site.
(3) For a permitted restaurant use that includes drive-through service, no more than two signs for each drive-through lane that:
(a) may not exceed:
(i) 32 square feet in area per sign; or
(ii) a height of eight feet above grade; and
(b) must be located within or adjacent to a drive-through lane and substantially screened from view of the street right-of-way.
(4) For a permitted retail use, a sign accompanying the display of an item for sale or affixed to a product dispenser.
(5) For a civic use, one or more signs such as a bulletin board, directory, or other changeable copy sign, that may not exceed:
(a) a height of six feet above grade; or
(b) a total area of 32 square feet for all signs.
(C) Signs for Residential Uses. Unless otherwise specified, the following signs are allowed on a site containing any lawfully permitted residential use:
about:blank 491/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
(1) One or more non-illuminated signs that:
(a) have no moving parts; and
(b) may not exceed:
(i) a height of eight feet; or
(ii) a total area of 36 square feet for all signs.
(2) Within a single-family zoning district, flags that meet the following requirements:
(a) The maximum number of flags may not exceed three flags per acre of site area, rounded up to the nearest whole acre.
(b) The maximum area of a flag may not exceed 15 square feet.
(D) Signs for All Land Uses. Unless otherwise specified, the following signs are allowed on any property:
(1) Outside of the historic, low-density residential, or traditional neighborhood sign districts:
(a) One or more wall signs that:
(i) are non-electrical and are securely affixed to a building, fence, or wall;
(ii) may not exceed a total of 32 square feet in area for all wall signs associated with an individual building or, if a site contains no building, a total
area of 32 square feet; and
(iii) may not exceed a thickness of 3 inches.
(b) One freestanding sign that:
(i) is non-electrical; and
(ii) may not exceed 20 square feet in area or a height of eight feet above grade.
(2) Outside of a single-family zoning district, flags that meet the following requirements:
(a) Except as provided in Paragraph (2)(b):
(i) the maximum number of flags may not exceed two flags per 25 feet of frontage up to a maximum of eight flags per premises; and
(ii) the maximum area of a flag may not exceed 25 square feet.
(b) For an automotive rentals or sales use, one small flag may be attached to each vehicle, provided that the flag may not exceed:
(i) one square foot in area; or
(ii) a height of two feet above the vehicle or other item, measured as if it were displayed at grade level.
(3) An engraved sign, such as those traditionally associated with building name, provided that the sign:
(a) is cut into a building surface or inlaid to become part of the building; and
(b) does not exceed an area of ten percent of the building's facade; and
(c) when aggregated with all other wall signs on the building, does not exceed a total area of 32 square feet.
(4) One or more non-electrical electrical signs, such as those typically used to identify an address or occupant, which may not exceed a total of three
square feet in area for each site associated with the address on which the sign is located.
Source: Ord. No. 20170817-072, Pt. 4, 8-28-17.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 20170817-072, Pt. 4, effective August 28, 2017, repealed the former § 25-10-101, and enacted a new § 25-10-101 as set out herein. The
former § 25-10-101 pertained to signs allowed in all sign districts without an installation permit. See Code Comparative Table for complete derivation.