ยง 25-6-660 - ACCOUNTS.
(A) The city manager shall establish accounting controls to ensure compliance with Section 395.024 of the Texas Local Government Code.
(B) The city manager shall establish separate interest-bearing accounts for street impact fees collected for each street impact fee service area.
(C) Funds may be disbursed as reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes of this article within a reasonable period, but not to exceed 10 years from the
date the street impact fee is deposited into the account.
(D) The city manager will keep financial records for street impact fees showing the source and disbursement of all street impact fees collected in or expended
from each service area.
(E) The street impact fees collected may be used to:
(1) finance, pay for, or recoup the costs of any roadway facility identified in the roadway capacity plan for the service area;
(2) pay for the contract services of an independent qualified engineer or financial consultant; or
(3) pay the principal sum and interest and other finance costs on bonds, notes, or other obligations issued by or on behalf of the City to finance such
capital improvements.
(F) After ten years have passed from the date of payment of a street impact fee, the record owner of the property or governmental entity that paid the
original street impact fee may apply for a proportional refund of any street impact fees that have not been expended within the service area within such
period. Street impact fees shall be considered expended on a first in, first out basis. The application for a refund must be submitted to the City within 60
days after the expiration of the ten-year period. The refund shall include interest calculated from the date of collection to the date of refund at the
statutory rate as set forth in Texas Finance Code Section 302.002, or its successor statute.
about:blank 395/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
Source: Ord. No. 20201210-062, Pt. 2, 12-21-20.
Division 2. - Fee Established.