§ 25-12-173 - LOCAL AMENDMENTS TO THE 2024 INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE.
Each provision in this subsection is a substitute for an identically numbered provision deleted or amended by Section 25-12-171(B) and (C) or an addition to the
2024 International Fire Code.
[A] 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Fire Code and hereinafter referred to as "this code."
[A] 102.7.1 Conflicts. In the event of a conflict between referenced provisions of the International Mechanical Code and the Mechanical Code, the
Mechanical Code prevails. In the event of a conflict between referenced provisions of the International Plumbing Code, the International Fuel Gas Code and
the Plumbing Code, the Plumbing Code prevails. Where differences occur between the provisions of the Fire Code and the referenced standards, the
provisions of the Fire Code prevail.
[A] 102.7.2 Provisions in referenced codes and standards. Unless precedence is specified by another ordinance of the City, where the extent of the
reference to a referenced code or standard includes subject matter that is within the scope of this code, the provisions of this code, as applicable, shall
take precedence over the provisions in the referenced code or standard.
[A] 102.7.3 Fire Protection Criteria Manual. Additional information on procedures and rules for administration of this code are available in the Fire
Protection Criteria Manual.
[A] SECTION 103 FIRE PREVENTION
[A] 103.1 General. The fire department, under the direction of the fire chief, is authorized to implement, administer and enforce the Fire Code.
[A] 103.2 Appointment. The fire chief is appointed by the City Manager in accordance with the policies and procedures of the City and in compliance with
state law. The fire chief serves as the fire code official.
[A] 103.3 Deputies. The fire chief appoints the fire marshal and assistant fire marshals, inspectors, or other employees and delegates duties consistent
with the policies and procedures of the fire department. Where the terms "fire code official", "fire chief", "chief", "fire department", or "fire marshal" are
used in the Fire Code, the provisions apply to assistant fire marshals, inspectors, engineering professionals, and other fire department employees in the
execution of their assigned duties.
[A] 104.1 General. The fire code official is authorized to administer, implement, and enforce the Fire Code; is authorized to render interpretations of the
Fire Code; and to adopt policies, procedures, rules and regulations in order to implement the Fire Code. An interpretation rendered or a policy, procedure,
rule, or regulation adopted by the fire code official must comply with the intent and purpose of the Fire Code and cannot have the effect of waiving a
requirement of the Fire Code. Under the fire chief's direction, the fire department is authorized to enforce all ordinances of the jurisdiction pertaining to:
1. the prevention of fires;
2. the suppression or extinguishment of dangerous or hazardous fires;
3. the storage, use and handling of hazardous materials;
4. the installation and maintenance of automatic, manual and other private fire alarm systems and fire-extinguishing equipment;
5. the maintenance and regulation of fire escapes;
6. the maintenance of fire protection and the elimination of fire hazards on land and in buildings, structures and other property, including those under
construction;
7. the maintenance of means of egress; and
8. the investigation of the cause, origin and circumstances of fire and unauthorized releases of hazardous materials.
[A] 104.1.1 Authorized Personnel. The fire chief and members of the fire department assigned to enforce the Fire Code are authorized to issue citations
for violations of the Fire Code.
[A] 104.13 Authority of the Chief. The fire chief, or the fire chief's designee, may order the evacuation of or cessation of its use or operation of any area,
premises, building, building under construction, or vehicle that is or is in imminent danger of becoming a fire hazard, becoming a chemical exposure
hazard, or becoming a life or health hazard as a result of flooding or other dangerous condition.
[A] 105.3.1 Expiration. An operational permit remains in effect until reissued, renewed, revoked, or for such a period of time as specified in the permit.
Construction permits are issued and administered consistent with the Building Code. Unless otherwise provided in the Fire Code, permits are not
transferable and any change in occupancy, operation, tenancy or ownership requires a new permit.
about:blank 568/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
105.5 Required operational permits. The fire code official may issue an operational permit for an operation, practice, or function described in this section.
105.5.5 Carnivals and fairs. An operational permit is required to conduct a carnival or fair.
105.5.9 Compressed gases. An operational permit for compressed gases is required and must comply with Section 105.5.22 (Hazardous materials).
105.5.11 Cryogenic fluids. An operational permit for cryogenic fluids is required and must comply with Section 105.5.22 (Hazardous materials).
105.5.15 Exhibits and trade shows. An operational permit is required to operate exhibits and trade shows.
105.5.16 Explosives.
105.5.16.1 Blasting. An operational permit is required to use explosives or blasting agents at an addressed location for a specified period, which is based
on the class of permit. Chapter 56 (Explosives and fireworks) establishes additional requirements for a blasting operational permit.
1. Class A: 45 days.
2. Class B: 120 days.
3. Class C: 1 year.
4. Class D: 10 days.
105.5.16.2 Explosives or Blasting Agents. An operational permit is required for the manufacture, storage, handling, sale, or use of explosives, and
explosive materials within the scope of Chapter 56 (Explosives and fireworks).
Exception: Storage in Group R-3 occupancies of smokeless propellant, black powder and small arms primers for personal use, not for resale and consistent
with Section 5606.
105.5.16.3 Fireworks. An operational permit is required to manufacture, store, handle, sell, or use any quantity of fireworks or pyrotechnic special effects.
105.5.17 Fire protection systems. An annual operational permit is required for all fixed fire protection systems in buildings and facilities, including but not
limited to fire alarm systems, fire sprinkler systems, commercial kitchen hood suppression systems, and mechanical smoke control systems. A single
permit is required for each building or facility and must detail the types and locations of systems present. Inspections and testing that complies with the
Fire Protection Criteria Manual and any other applicable national standards is a condition of permit approval.
105.5.18 Flammable and combustible liquids. An operation permit for flammable and combustible liquids is required and must comply with Section
105.5.22.2 (Hazardous materials).
105.5.22 Hazardous Materials.
105.5.22.1 An operational permit is required to use or possess hazardous materials in a quantity in excess of that described in 105.5.22.2 below and
meeting any one of the following criteria:
105.5.22.1.1 Materials with a health rating of 2 or more, as defined in Appendix F.
105.5.22.1.2 Materials with a flammability rating of 2 or more, as defined in Appendix F.
105.5.22.1.3 Materials with an instability rating of 2 or more, as defined in Appendix F.
105.5.22.1.4 Compressed gases liquefied compressed gases and cryogenic fluids.
105.5.22.2 An operational permit is required to use or possess hazardous materials if the aggregate quantity of each material with the same hazard rating,
in the same physical state throughout the facility, is equal to or greater than the following:
MINIMUM AGGREGATE QUANTITY
Flammability Rating Quantity
4 Extreme 0.5 pounds or 5 gallons
3 High 12 pounds or 10 gallons
2 Moderate 60 pounds or 120 gallons
Health Rating Quantity
4 Extreme 0.35 ounces or 0.3 fluid ounces
about:blank 569/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
3 High 10 pounds or 1 gallon
2 Moderate 110 pounds or 55 gallons
Instability Rating Quantity
4 Extreme 0.35 ounces or 0.3 fluid ounces
3 High 10 pounds or 1 gallon
2 Moderate 110 pounds or 55 gallons
Carbon Dioxide System 101 pounds
Compressed gases and liquefied compressed gases, Including oxygen 100 cubic feet at NTP
Cryogenic fluids 1 gallon
Storage of Lithium Metal and Lithium-Ion Batteries 16 cubic feet
Stationary and Mobile Energy Storage System (ESS) Energy Capacity or
Quantity
Capacitor ESS - nameplate rating 3 kWh
Flow batteries - nameplate rating 20 kWh
Lithium ion ESS - nameplate rating 20 kwh
Nickel metal hydride - nameplate rating 70 kWh
Other battery technologies - nameplate rating 10 kWh
Other electrochemical ESS technologies - nameplate rating 3 kWh
Stationary lead-acid batteries - flooded and valve regulated, and Nickel-Cadmium ESS. Mobile 15 gallons
ESS utilizing lead acid battery technology are exempt.
105.5.22.3 An operational permit is required to dispense liquid fuels, regardless of hazard classification, from tank vehicles into the fuel tanks of motor
vehicles at commercial, industrial, governmental or manufacturing establishments. A person may not dispense liquid fuels of any kind from tank vehicles
into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles at a residence.
105.5.22.4 The criteria for the rating of hazardous materials are contained in NFPA Standard No. 704 (See Appendix F). The fire code official uses NFPA
Standard No. 704 to assign hazard ratings to hazardous materials. If the NFPA Fire Protection Handbook assigns a material a hazard rating, then that rating
is used. When a rating is not provided, the fire code official uses NFPA 704, information contained in Safety Data Sheets (SDS), Appendix E, or other
commonly accepted published standards of nationally recognized organizations/authors to classify hazardous materials.
105.5.22.5 Compressed and liquefied gases and cryogenic fluids will be totaled on a quantitative basis for each hazard class. The materials may be reported
in pounds or gallons but, for the purpose of regulation, are calculated in cubic feet by the fire department.
105.5.22.6 The state of a material (liquid, solid, gas) is based on its physical state at NTP.
105.5.22.7 Materials not requiring a permit. The following materials are not subject to the permitting requirements:
105.5.22.7.1 Inert gases that do not support combustion including argon, helium, krypton, neon, xenon, compressed air, and nitrogen. When stored as
cryogenic fluids, these gases are subject to permitting requirements.
105.5.22.7.2 Any material used or stored for household purposes at a private residence.
about:blank 570/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
105.5.22.7.3 Any material contained in a transportation vehicle when the vehicle is not being used for permanent storage.
105.5.22.7.4 Commercial products used at a facility solely for janitorial purposes and maintenance products that are necessary for the immediate,
continued operation of equipment at the facility (not to include fuels) and are not for resale. This includes air conditioning refrigerant and pool chemicals
when maintained in quantities less than the following:
TABLE 105.5.22.7.4 - MATERIAL LIMITS
Material Rating Quantity
Corrosives 3-0-0 4 gallons
Class 2 Oxidizers 3-0-2 150 pounds
Class 3 Oxidizers 3-0-2 110 pounds
Non-Flammable Air Conditioning Refrigerant 2-0-0 2—30 pound cylinders
105.5.22.7.5 Materials held solely as pharmaceutical products that are packaged for distribution to, and use by, the general public, except for those
materials with a toxic or flammable hazard rating of 3 or more and reactive materials with a rating of 2 or more, based on the criteria in the Fire Protection
Manual.
105.5.22.7.6 Any waste material regulated by the State of Texas under Chapter 361, Health and Safety Code or under Federal regulations must be listed in a
permit application but will not require a permit nor be considered in setting the amount of the permit fee.
105.5.22.7.7 Nuclear and radioactive material(s) regulated by the State of Texas under Chapter 401, Health and Safety Code or under Federal regulations
must be listed in a permit application but will not require a permit nor be considered in setting the amount of the permit fee.
105.5.22.7.8 Any material contained in a process vessel, except when the process vessel is being used for permanent storage.
105.5.22.7.9 Any material stored in an underground tank that complies with the permit requirements of the Development Services Department, or its
successor department, and with the reporting requirements of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Emergency Planning and Community Right-
to-Know Act (EPCRA), also known as Title III of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act (SARA Title III), and if applicable, with the requirements
of the Texas Hazard Communication Act.
105.5.22.7.10 Class II combustible liquids used to fuel emergency generators, located outside of buildings, and in approved tanks or containers less than
275 gallons in size.
105.5.22.7.11 Carbon dioxide systems utilizing high pressure cylinders that are not associated with beverage dispensing applications.
105.5.23 HPM facilities. HPM facilities, including Group H-5 occupancies are required to obtain a hazardous materials permit and must comply with Section
105.5.22.
105.5.24 High-piled storage. A triennial operational permit is required to use a building or portion thereof as a high-piled storage area that exceeds 2000
square feet (185m 2 ).
105.5.29 Lithium batteries. An operational permit for the accumulation of lithium ion and lithium metal batteries is required and must comply with Section
105.5.22.
105.5.30 LP-Gas. An operational permit is required for liquefied petroleum gas and must comply with Section 105.5.22 (Hazardous materials).
105.5.36 Open burning. An operational permit is required to kindle or maintain an open fire or a fire on a public street, alley, road or other public or
private ground. A person must comply with the instructions and stipulations of the permit. An open fire or fire includes trench burners (Section 308.5),
mobile incinerators (Section 308.6) and agricultural burning (Section 308.7).
Exception: Recreational fires
105.5.38 Open flames and candles. An operational permit is required to use open flames or candles in connection with an assembly area or the dining
area of a restaurant or drinking establishment.
105.5.39 Organic coatings. An operational permit is required for organic coatings and must comply with Section 105.6.22 (Hazardous materials).
105.5.41 Places of assembly. An operational permit or appropriate certificate of occupancy is required to operate a place of assembly.
about:blank 571/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
105.5.41.1 An annual operational permit is required to operate a place of assembly where 51% or more of the gross receipts at the location are from
alcoholic beverage sales.
105.5.41.2 With concurrence of the Building Official, the fire code official may issue a temporary change of use permit to use a structure for public
assembly in accordance with Section 408 of this code.
105.5.44 Pyrotechnic special effects material. An operational permit is required to use and handle pyrotechnic special effects material.
105.5.51 Temporary membrane structures, special event structures and tents. An operational permit is required to operate an air-supported temporary
membrane structure, special event structure or a tent having an area in excess of 100 square feet (9.3 m 2 ), or an aggregate area of multiple tents or
membrane structures placed side by side in excess of 400 square feet (37m 2 ).
Exceptions:
1. Tents used exclusively for recreational camping purposes.
2. Funeral tents and curtains or extensions attached thereto, when used for funeral services.
3. Tents that are not attached to or located within 20 feet (6096 mm) of, a building shall not require a permit unless the tent is in excess of 400 square
feet (37 m 2 ).
4. Tents open on all sides which comply with all of the following:
4.1 Individual tents having a maximum size of 700 square feet (65 m 2 ).
4.2 The aggregate area of multiple tents placed side by side without a firebreak clearance of not less than 12 feet (3658 mm) shall not exceed 700 square
feet (65 m 2 ) total.
4.3 A minimum clearance of 20 feet (6096 mm) to structures and other tents shall be provided.
5. Inflatable playground equipment at one- or two-family residences.
6. Inflatable playground equipment used for less than 24 hours at places of worship or education facilities (for ages served by the 6 th grade and
younger) when located a minimum of 20 feet from the nearest building.
105.6 Required construction permits. The fire code official may issue construction permits for work as described in Section 105.6.1.
105.6.1 No Separate Construction Permits Required. Construction permits for permanent structures and systems that are issued through the building
permit system shall be administered by the Development Services Department, or its successor department.
105.6.2 Temporary membrane structures, special event structures and tents. A construction permit is required to erect an air supported temporary
membrane structure, special event structure or tent having an area in excess of 100 square feet (9.3 m 2 ) or an aggregate area of multiple tents placed side
by side in excess of 400 square feet (37 m 2 ).
Exceptions:
1. Tents used exclusively for recreational camping purposes.
2. Funeral tents and curtains or extensions attached thereto, when used for funeral services.
3. Tents that are not attached in any way to or within 20 feet (6096 mm) of a building shall not require a permit unless the tent is in excess of 400 square
feet (37 m 2 ).
4. Tents open on all sides, which comply with all of the following;
4.1 Individual tents having a maximum size of 700 square feet (65 m 2 ).
4.2 The aggregate area of multiple tents placed side by side without a fire break clearance of not less than 12 feet (3658 mm) shall not exceed 700 square
feet (65 m 2 ) total.
4.3 A minimum clearance of 20 feet (3658 mm) to structures and other tents shall be provided.
5. Inflatable playground equipment at one- or two-family residences.
6. Inflatable playground equipment used for less than 24 hours at places of worship or education facilities (for ages served by the 6 th grade and
younger) when located a minimum of 20 feet from the nearest building.
[A] 106.1 Submittals. Construction documents and supporting data that are part of a site plan or building permit submittal must be submitted consistent
with the requirements in the Land Development Code. After building permit review, a shop drawing submittal must be submitted directly to the fire
department as described in the Fire Criteria Manual. The construction documents shall be prepared by a registered design professional, licensed fire alarm
planning superintendent (APS), or licensed fire sprinkler responsible managing employee (RME) as appropriate and as required by Texas Law. Construction
documents must comply with the Fire Code and be consistent with the guidance in the Fire Protection Criteria Manual.
Exception: The fire code official may waive the submission of construction documents and supporting data that is not required to be prepared by a
registered design professional if the fire code official finds that the nature of the work applied for is such that review of construction documents is not
necessary to obtain compliance with the Fire Code.
about:blank 572/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
SECTION 108 FEES
[A] 108.1 Fees. A permit shall not be issued until the fees have been paid.
[A] 108.2 Schedule of fees. Each permit or service fee established in the Fire Code is set by separate ordinance.
[A] 108.4 Work commencing before permit issuance. Any person who commences any work, activity or operation regulated by this code before obtaining
the necessary permits shall be subject to a notice of violation and to prosecution as provided in section 111.3 of this code. Any penalties assessed due to
prosecution under this code shall be in addition to the required permit or service fees.
[A] 108.5 Related fees. The payment of the fee for the construction, alteration, removal or demolition of work done in connection to or concurrently with
the work or activity authorized by a permit shall not relieve the applicant or holder of the permit from the payment of other fees that are prescribed by law.
[A] 108.6 Refunds. The refund policy of the City and the fire department shall be applicable to the over payment of any fees associated with the
administration of this code.
109.2.3 Re-inspections. When previously identified violations have not been corrected, a fee shall be assessed for a construction related re-inspection
requested by the applicant or contractor. When a scheduled inspection fails, or is cancelled with less than a 24 hour notice, due to the fact that the
applicant or contractor was not capable of nor prepared for the inspection to be conducted, a re-inspection fee shall be assessed. The re-inspection fee
shall be in an amount set by separate ordinance. No subsequent inspections shall be made until the required fees have been paid and required
documentation submitted.
112.1 Appeals. Appeals are handled consistent with Chapter 25-1, Article 7, Division 1 (Appeals).
113.3.2 Compliance with orders and notices. Orders and notices of violation issued or served as provided by this code shall be complied with by the
owner, operator, occupant or other person responsible for the condition or violation to which the notice of violation pertains. In cases of immediate danger
to persons or property, immediate compliance is required. If the building or other premises is not owner occupied, under lease or otherwise, and the order
or notice requires additions or changes in the building or premises which would immediately become fixtures and be the property of the owner of the
building or premises, such orders or notices shall be complied with by the owner.
Exception: If the owner and the occupant have agreed otherwise between themselves, then the occupant shall comply.
113.3.3 Prosecution of violations.
113.3.3.1 A violation of this code is a misdemeanor punishable as set forth in Section 25-1-462(Criminal Enforcement). The filing of a criminal action does
not preclude the pursuit of a civil, quasi-judicial, or administrative action for violation of this code.
113.3.3.2 The fire code official may enforce the provisions of this code by pursuing all civil, quasi-judicial, administrative, and criminal actions; all remedies
available to a city under state law; or by any combination of remedies available at law or equity. In any court action, the fire official may pursue the
collection of attorney's fees and costs; and maximum interest on liens and judgments as allowed by law. The filing of a civil action does not preclude the
pursuit of any other action or remedy, whether quasi-judicial, administrative, or criminal. All remedies authorized under this code are cumulative of all
others unless otherwise expressly provided.
113.3.3.3 Citations. Persons operating or maintaining an occupancy, premises or vehicle subject to this code who allow a hazard to exist or fail to take
immediate action to abate a hazard on such occupancy, premises or vehicle when ordered or notified to do so by the fire code official shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
113.3.4 Unauthorized tampering. Signs, notices, orders, tags or seals posted or affixed by the fire code official shall not be mutilated, destroyed or
tampered with or removed without authorization from the fire code official.
202.1 Supplemental and replacement definitions. The following definitions in this subsection apply throughout this code and supplement the definitions
in Section 202 (General Definitions) of the 2024 International Fire Code.
ACCESS ROADWAY. Any road(s) providing access around the perimeter of any building, to a building from a public street, or to a building or its fire
department connection from a required fire hydrant.
ALL WEATHER DRIVING SURFACE. Hot mix asphaltic concrete or concrete pavement as per City of Austin Standard Specifications or other alternative
roadway methods approved by the fire code official.
[B] ANIMAL HOUSING OR CARE FACILITY. A facility used for twenty-four (24) hour occupancy or permanent housing of animals for the purpose of
providing a service, participating in a sport, or for providing general board and care. Animal housing or care facilities include animal shelters, animal
breeding facilities, animal grooming facilities, animal daycare facilities, pet resorts, animal hospitals/veterinary clinics, kennels and pounds. Animal housing
or care facilities do not include animal or pet care by pet owners for their own animals at a personal residence, and these facilities do not include Group U
agricultural uses for the care and feeding of the agricultural business owner's own livestock.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD. An area that stores salvage vehicles.
about:blank 573/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
BATTERY ELECTRIC VEHICLE (BEV). A National Highway Traffic Safety Administration certified electrified vehicle with a high voltage system and a battery for
propulsion including, but not limited to, hybrid electric vehicle, plug-in hybrid electric vehicle, plug-in electric vehicle, and fuel cell electric vehicle.
CERTIFICATION. A record of the test, including problems found and corrections made, documenting the actions on approved forms.
CITY. These terms mean the City of Austin, in the Hays, Travis and Williamson Counties of the State of Texas. Geographically these terms indicate all
territory within the corporate limits of the City and that territory annexed for limited purpose by the City and in accordance with Article I, Section 7 of the
Charter of the City of Austin.
[B] CONSTANT SUPERVISION FOR GROUP B ANIMAL HOUSING OR CARE FACILITY. 24-hour on-site staff capable or responding to problems or
emergencies that could impact the safety or lives of the animals being housed or cared for.
[M] COMMERCIAL COOKING APPLIANCES. Appliances used in a commercial food service establishment for heating or cooking food and which produce
grease vapors, steam, fumes, smoke or odors that are required to be removed through a local exhaust ventilation system. Such appliances include deep fat
fryers; upright broilers; griddles; broilers; steam-jacketed kettles; hot-top ranges; under-fired broilers (charbroilers); ovens; barbecues; rotisseries; and
similar appliances. For the purpose of this definition, a food service establishment shall include any building or a portion thereof used for the preparation
and serving of food for more than 6 hours per week, including food services within a residential board and care facility if the facility serves 12 or more
residents.
EXTENSION CORD AND FLEXIBLE CORD. Flexible cord of any length which has one male electrical connector on one end and one or more female electrical
connectors on the other end.
FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS ROAD. A road that provides fire apparatus access from a fire station to a facility, building or portion thereof. This is a general
term inclusive of all other terms such as fire lane, fire zone, public street, private street, parking lot lane and access roadway.
FIRE DEPARTMENT. The Austin Fire Department.
FIRE LANE AND FIRE ZONE. A road, an off-street area, or other passageway developed to allow the passage of fire apparatus that is designated in
accordance with this code that is to remain free and clear of parked or standing vehicles in order to provide access to buildings, processes, storage areas or
fire appliances in case of fire or other emergency. A fire lane is not necessarily intended to be used by vehicular traffic other than fire apparatus.
HAZARDOUS PRODUCTION MATERIAL (HPM). A solid, liquid or gas associated with semiconductor manufacturing that has a degree-of-hazard rating
health, flammability or instability of Class 3 or 4 as ranked by NFPA 704 and which is used directly in research, laboratory or production processes which
have, as their end product, materials that are not hazardous. Class II combustible liquids shall also be classified as a hazardous production material when
used in the manner described in this definition.
KEY BOX AND KNOX BOX. A listed security device with a lock operable only by a fire department master key and containing building entry keys and other
keys that may be required for access in an emergency.
LEGITIMATE COOKING FIRE. A fire kindled within the confines of an appliance or structure manufactured or built for the express purpose of cooking meals
for consumption by human. Incidental cooking or warming of foods with an open recreational fire shall not be considered a "legitimate cooking fire".
LEGITIMATE WARMING FIRE. A fire kindled within the confines of a metal or other non-combustible container at a construction site or other similar
outdoor employment location for the sole purpose of allowing employees/workers to warm themselves without having to leave the workplace or
construction site.
MOTOR VEHICLE FLUIDS. Liquids which are flammable, combustible or hazardous materials, such as crankcase fluids, fuel, brake fluids, transmission
fluids, radiator fluids and gear oil. This definition does not include liquids which are permanently sealed, such as hydraulic fluid within shock absorbers.
PERMANENT STORAGE. Storage for a period of over 30 days.
PROCESS VESSEL. A container, including the associated piping, used or designed to be used to contain or promote a chemical or physical reaction.
SALVAGE VEHICLE. A vehicle which is dismantled for parts or awaiting destruction.
TEST. A complete check of the system under nationally recognized standards to determine that the system operates and functions as designed.
203.1 Occupancy classification. The following definitions in this subsection apply throughout this code and supplement the definitions in Section 203
(Occupancy classification) of the 2024 International Fire Code.
[BG] 203.3 Business Group B. Business Group B occupancy also includes:
Animal housing or care facilities
*All other examples remain unchanged.
about:blank 574/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
[BG] 203.6 High-hazard Group H. High-hazard Group H occupancy includes, among others, the use of a building or structure, or a portion thereof, that
involves the manufacturing, processing, generation or storage of materials that constitute a physical or health hazard in quantities in excess of those
allowed in control areas complying with Section 5003.8.3, based on the maximum allowable quantity limits for control areas set forth in Tables 5003.1.1(1)
and 5003.1.1(2). Hazardous occupancies are classified in Groups H-1, H-2, H-3, H-4 and H-5 and shall be in accordance with this code and the requirements
of Section 415 of the Building Code. Hazardous materials stored or used on top of roofs or canopies shall be classified as outdoor rooftop storage or use
and shall comply with this code.
304.3.5 Capacity exceeding 1.5 cubic yards. Dumpsters and containers with an individual capacity of 1.5 cubic yards [40.5 cubic feet (1.15 m 3 )] or more
shall not be stored in buildings or placed within 10 feet (3048 mm) of combustible walls, openings or combustible roof eave lines.
Exceptions:
1. Dumpsters or containers in areas protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system installed throughout in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or
903.3.1.2.
2. Storage in a structure shall not be prohibited where the structure is of Type I or Type IIA construction, located not less than 10 feet (3048 mm) from
other buildings and used exclusively for dumpster or container storage.
307.2 Permit required. A permit shall be obtained from the fire department emergency prevention division in accordance with Section 105.6 prior to
kindling a fire for recognized silvicultural or range or wildlife management practices, prevention or control of disease or pests, a warming fire, a rubbish
fire, or a bonfire. Application for such approval shall only be presented by and permits issued to the owner of the land upon which the fire is to be kindled.
Rubbish includes waste material from the construction or demolition of buildings. For additional requirements concerning trench burning, see Section
308.5. For mobile incinerators, see Section 308.6. For agricultural burning see Section 308.7.
Exception: A permit is not required for legitimate cooking fires or legitimate warming fires as defined in this chapter.
307.4 Location. When authorized by permits in accordance with Section 307.2, the location for open burning shall not be less than 50 feet (15 240 mm)
from any structure, and provisions shall be made to prevent the fire from spreading to within 50 feet (15 240 mm) of any structure. Such fires shall be
constantly attended by a competent person with an approved means to extinguish the fire.
Exceptions:
1. Fires in approved containers that are not less than 15 feet (4572 mm) from a structure.
2. Operation of a trench burner shall be in accordance with Section 308.5.
3. Operation of a mobile incinerator shall be in accordance with Section 308.6.
4. Open burning for agricultural purposes may be approved by the fire code official in accordance with Section 308.7.
308.5 Trench Burners. In addition to the provisions of Section 307, all trench burners in the City shall comply with the following:
308.5.1 Construction. The trench burner shall be located at the center of a circle three hundred feet in diameter, in which no combustible matter will be
located or stored, except for the pile of combustible debris which has been readied for loading into the trench burner pit, except as otherwise provided by
law.
1. Pertaining to trees, landscaping, erosion, drainage, or run-off control the surface of the land within the circle shall be cleared of any high grasses, and
any trees, brush, and weeds.
2. The pit must be built in the ground and not above grade.
3. The dimensions of the pit shall be 14 feet wide, 40 feet long, and at least 10 feet deep, except in cases where a permit issued to the applicant by the
Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) prescribes different dimensions. The ash generated by the operation of the trench burner shall
be removed from the trench as necessary to maintain a minimum trench depth of 10 feet.
4. The pit, air blower or fan, and other operating equipment shall be securely enclosed by a locked gate and security fence of a minimum height of eight
feet which completely surrounds the pit and equipment at all times when the trench burner is unattended. The top portions of the fence shall consist
of at least three runs of barbed wire. The fencing shall not be removed until the pit is closed and filled. An approved fire department key lock shall be
required to secure the gate.
308.5.2 Location. A trench burner must not be located within 1320 feet of any recreational area, building or structure that is not occupied or used solely by
the owner of the property on which the trench burner is constructed.
308.5.3 Hours of Operation. The hours of continuous loading operation shall be between 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. Trench burners
may not be operated on Saturday, Sunday or legal holidays.
1. The blower or fan will be allowed to operate an additional two hours from 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. to ensure cool down after its period of continuous
loading operations.
2. The hours of operation may be changed by the fire code official when unusual atmospheric conditions exist.
3. No burning is permitted when air stagnation advisories are in effect for the area in which the trench burner is located.
about:blank 575/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
4. No burning is permitted during periods of high fire hazard weather conditions.
308.5.4 Method of Operation. Material that may be burned is limited to trees, brush, untreated waste lumber, shrubs, roots, bushes, and all untreated
wood waste cleared from the site described in the permit application. Combustible debris cleared from other sites may not be burned in the trench burner.
1. All other materials, including but not limited to paper, roofing, shingles, insulation, wiring, treated wood products, metal products, chemicals, plastics,
tires and other real or synthetic rubber materials may not be burned in the pit. Flammable or combustible liquids may not be burned except for
ignition purposes.
2. Suitable fire protection shall be present on the site where the trench burner is located during operation. Suitable fire protection consists of a trailer or
tank truck fitted with a water tank capable of transporting a 500 gallon water supply to any location on the job site and an approved water delivery
system consisting of a pump, at least 100 feet of rubber booster hose having a minimum diameter of three-fourths inch, and either a straight stream
or adjustable spray nozzle.
3. The pit must be closed and filled with dirt within 48 hours after the trench burner operations are discontinued.
4. Combustible material may not be placed in the trench any higher than three feet below the surface level.
5. Every trench burner must be attended when in operation. The trench burner shall be completely extinguished before being left unattended.
308.5.5 Permit Application. The permit application must contain the following:
1. The name, address, and phone number of the individual or entity that owns the trench burner unit.
2. The name, address, and phone number of the individual or entity responsible for the operation of the trench burner unit.
3. A description of the site to be cleared, and the name, address and telephone number of owner of the property.
4. An operating schedule including initial date of operation and expected number of weeks of operation.
5. A copy of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality permit issued for the construction of the unit, if a permit is required.
6. A statement from the applicant confirming the applicant will inform the Watershed Protection Department, or its successor department, of the dates
the trench burner will be operating.
7. A description of the type and quantity of petroleum product utilized to ignite the trench burner. If this is to be stored at the site, then the manner of
storage and quantity to be stored must be described. The method of igniting the trench burner must be described.
8. Proof that the applicant has current liability insurance in the amount of $1,000,000 for personal injuries, and $500,000 for property damage any time
the trench burner is in use.
9. The payment of the permit fee set by separate ordinance.
10. Certification from the Development Services Department, or its successor department, as required by Section 308.5.6.
11. A construction permit from the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality must be obtained if required by Commission rule. If the trench burner is
exempt from the Commission permit requirements all conditions of the exemption must be complied with.
308.5.6 Environmental Protection. The Development Services Department, or its successor department, shall require the following before the issuance of
certification:
1. The bottom of the trench is located at a minimum distance of 50 feet from the water table;
2. No fissures are located inside or adjacent to the trench;
3. Ignition fuel shall be limited to combustible liquids, as defined by this code. Approval shall also be granted where an alternative to the use of
combustible liquids is used to ignite the trench;
4. The method of igniting the trench ensures no amount of combustible liquid greater than necessary to ignite the trench will be used; and,
5. The manner of storage of the product at the site is designed to prevent any leak or accidental discharge, and where applicable, the hazardous
materials storage and registration requirements are met; and
6. An environmental review shall be conducted of the watershed of Lake Austin, Lake Travis, or with the aquifer-related watershed of Barton,
Williamson, Slaughter, Big Bear, Little Bear and Onion Creek, including the Edwards Aquifer recharge zone North and South of the Colorado River, all
as shown on the hazardous materials storage and registration map on file in the Office of the City Clerk.
308.6 Mobile Incinerators. All mobile incinerators in the City must comply with the following:
308.6.1 Construction. Each mobile incinerator must be constructed as follows:
1. Engineered and constructed of material and of a gauge to withstand normal operating temperature of 1200°F or higher without deformation.
2. Chimneys serving mobile incinerators must terminate into a spark arrester having an area not less than four times the net free area of the chimney.
Openings shall not permit the passage of spheres having a diameter larger than ½ inch nor block the passage of spheres having a diameter smaller
than ⅜ inch.
3. The exterior wall of the mobile incinerator must be of double wall construction. The incinerator must be designed such that the temperature rise
above ambient temperature (750° F + 5°F) of any portion of the incinerator accessible to the operator shall not exceed 150°F.
4.
about:blank 576/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
Insulation must be installed or adequate airspace provided between the external casing and the inner wall as required to meet this temperature limitation.
5. Mobile incinerators must be constructed with a dual combustion chamber of which the secondary chamber must maintain a temperature of 1200°F
or higher at all times waste material is being reduced by oxidation caused by heat of combustion.
6. The secondary chamber must be provided with a thermocouple connected to a temperature display for monitoring the temperature.
7. Any design not in compliance with the criteria and appropriate nationally recognized standards must have the construction reviewed and submitted
as an alternative method under the seal of a registered professional engineer or a recognized testing laboratory.
308.6.2 Location. No mobile incinerator may be located:
1. Within 10 feet of any property line, and a minimum of 10 feet must be maintained between any incinerator and rubbish, dry grass, weeds, vegetation
and other combustible materials.
2. Within 300 feet of any recreational area, residence or structure not occupied or used solely by the owner of the mobile incinerator or the owner of the
property on which the mobile incinerator is used.
308.6.3 Hours of Operation. The hours of continuous loading operation shall be between 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. Mobile
incinerators may not be operated on Saturday, Sunday or legal holidays.
1. The mobile incinerator may be allowed to operate an additional two hours from 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. to ensure cool down after its period of
continuous loading operations.
2. The fire code official may change the hours of operation when unusual atmospheric conditions exist.
3. No burning is permitted during air stagnation advisories in effect in the area in which the mobile incinerator is located.
4. No burning is permitted during periods of high fire hazard weather conditions.
308.6.4 Method of Operation. Material to be burned in the mobile incinerator is limited to highly combustible waste, paper, wood, cardboard cartons,
including up to 10 percent treated papers or plastic scraps.
1. Suitable fire protection must be present within a distance of 20 feet at all times of operation. Suitable fire protection consists of an approved water
extinguisher having a minimum rating of 10-A, and one dry chemical portable fire extinguisher with at least a 2A-10BC rating.
2. Material to be incinerated may not be stored within 10 linear feet of any surface of the mobile incinerator's combustion chamber, chimney or hot
ashes.
3. The mobile incinerator must be enclosed by a portable security fence of a minimum of four feet, or other equivalent approved barrier, which
completely surrounds the mobile incinerator providing a clear space of five feet at all times when the unit is in operation. The fencing may not be
removed until the incinerator is cool to the touch.
4. The mobile incinerator must not be moving and must be in a fixed position when operational or cooling.
5. Every mobile incinerator must be attended when in operation. It shall be completely extinguished before being left unattended.
308.6.5 Permit Application. The permit application must contain the following:
1. Name, address, and phone number of the individual or entity that owns the mobile incinerator.
2. Name, address, and phone number of the individual or entity responsible for the operation of the mobile incinerator.
3. Name, address, and phone number of the owner of the property where the mobile incinerator is to be operated.
4. Copy of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality permit or exemption letter issued for the use of the unit. (See Chapter 382, Health and
Safety Code).
5. Proof that the applicant has in effect liability insurance in the amount of $1,000,000 for personal injuries, and $500,000 for property damage any time
the mobile incinerator is in use.
6. Written permissions of the owner of the property where the mobile incinerator is to be operated.
7. Certification from the Development Services Department, or its successor department, as required by Section 308.6.6 of this code.
8. The payment of the permit fee set by separate ordinance.
308.6.6 Environmental Protection. The Development Services Department, or its successor department, shall require the following before the issuance of
certification:
1. A statement that the applicant will not deposit or discharge any waste in a manner that is in conflict with other applicable City Code requirements.
2. A description of the plan for storage and disposal of combustion residue.
308.7 Agricultural Burning. In addition to the provisions of Section 307, all agricultural burning in the City shall comply with the following:
308.7.1 Location. The location of any agricultural burning activity shall be limited to property zoned AG consisting of at least 150 contiguous acres. The
burn site shall be located at least 50 feet from the nearest property line or agricultural structure and shall be at least 1,320 feet from the nearest
recreational property (i.e. park), building or structure not owned and occupied or used solely by the owner of the agricultural property.
about:blank 577/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
308.7.2 Environmental conditions. The permit holder shall comply with applicable air quality regulations of the Texas Commission on Environmental
Quality (TCEQ) including time limits and atmospheric conditions. Burning shall not be permitted during atmospheric inversions or other conditions that
limit dispersion of the smoke plume.
308.7.3 Burning bans. Burning shall not be permitted during any weather related burn bans.
308.7.4 Fuel limitations. Material to be burned is limited to trees, brush, untreated waste lumber, shrubs, roots, bushes, and all untreated wood waste
associated with the agricultural property for which the burn permit is issued. Distilled hydrocarbons including liquid fuels, lubricants, synthetic materials,
tires, rubber, and plastics shall not be burned under an agricultural burn permit.
Exception: A limited quantity of liquid hydrocarbon fuel may be burned for the sole purpose of initial ignition of organic waste materials.
308.7.5 Insurance. Proof shall be provided at permit application that the applicant has current liability insurance in the amount of $1,000,000 for personal
injuries, and $500,000 for property damage any time agricultural burning is in progress.
311.5 Placards. Any vacant or abandoned buildings or structures determined to be unsafe pursuant to Section 110 relating to structural or interior hazards
shall be marked as required by the Development Services Department, or the successor department.
311.5.1 Placards for hazards related to emergency response. Any building or structure that is determined to present unique hazards to firefighters during
emergency operations shall be protected or marked as required by Section 505.3.
314.4 Vehicles. Liquid-fueled or gaseous-fueled vehicles, aircraft, boats or other motorcraft shall not be located indoors except as follows:
2.5 Battery electric vehicles not exceeding one-half of the battery's rated storage capacity or 50 percent of the battery state of charge, whichever is less.
All other provisions remain unchanged.
316.7 Unprotected Construction Presenting Hazards To Firefighters in Existing Buildings. When existing buildings, including residential structures, are
identified as employing construction methods or materials that have been shown by experience or testing to be associated with early failure or failure with
little or no warning under fire exposure, the premises identification markings shall be revised to achieve compliance with Section 505.3.
Exceptions:
1. Buildings protected throughout by automatic fire sprinklers in accordance with Sections 903.3.1.1, 903.3.1.2 or 903.3.1.3.
2. Buildings with a noncombustible or limited combustible membrane that shields the floor or roof construction materials from fire exposure. Such
membranes may be constructed using gypsum wallboard of at least one-half inch nominal thickness, cementous fiberboard of at least one-quarter
inch nominal thickness, or fire-retardant treated wood (FRTW) of at least one-half inch nominal thickness.
320.2. Permits. Permits shall be required for the accumulation of more than 15 cubic feet (0.42 m 3 ) of lithium-ion and lithium metal batteries, other than
batteries listed in the exception to Section 320.1, as set forth in Section 105.5.22.
SECTION 323 FIXED IN PLACE BATTERY ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGERS INSIDE BUILDING
323.1 General. The location and installation of fixed in place BEV chargers inside of an Enclosed, Open or Private parking garage shall be in accordance with
these provisions.
323.1.1 Responsibility for cleanup. Responsibility for cleanup shall be in accordance with Section 5003.3.1.5.
323.2 Identification of the Disconnecting Means. The BEV charger shall be provided with a permanent sign indicating the location of its disconnecting
means. When the electrical disconnect is in a room or other space it shall be identified with a permanent sign stating BATTERY ELECTRIC VEHICLE
DISCONNECT.
323.3 Automatic Sprinkler Protection. The story where fixed in place BEV chargers are located shall be protected by an automatic sprinkler system in
accordance with Section 903.3.1.1.
323.3.1 Disconnect of BEV Charger. Activation of the parking garage automatic sprinkler shall deactivate the BEVs on the floor of incident.
323.4 Location. The location of fixed in place BEV chargers inside of Enclosed, Open or Private parking garage shall be in accordance with this section.
323.4.1 Basements. Underground BEV chargers shall be limited to a one-story basement. BEV chargers located in basements two or more stories below
grade are prohibited. The chargers shall be located within 100 feet of the base of a vehicle ramp or an Exit Access Stairway.
323.4.2 Enclosed or Open Parking Garages. BEV chargers in enclosed parking garages shall be limited to two stories but not more than 30 feet above
grade plane. BEV chargers in Open Parking Garages shall be limited to three stories but not more than 30 feet above grade plane. The chargers shall be
located within 100 feet of a vehicle ramp or an Exit Access Stairway.
323.4.3 Private Garages in Enclosed or Open Parking Garages. Private garages constructed inside of Enclosed or Open Parking garages shall be located
within 100 feet of a vehicle ramp or an Exit Access Stairway.
about:blank 578/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
323.4.3.1 Mechanical Ventilation of Private Garages. A Private garage with one or more fixed in place BEV chargers shall be provided with exhaust
ventilation system that complies with all of the following:
1. Installation shall be in accordance with the Mechanical Code.
2. Mechanical ventilation system shall be at a rate of not less than one cubic foot per minute per square foot of the garage floor area.
3. Systems shall operate continuously unless alternative designs are approved.
4. Exhaust shall be taken from a point within 12 inches of the garage floor.
5. The location of the inlet and exhaust air shall be designed to provide air movement across all portions of the floor or room to prevent the
accumulation of vapors and gases.
323.4.3.2 Loss of Mechanical Ventilation. In the event the mechanical ventilation system fails, power to the fixed in place BEV chargers in the Private
garage shall be deactivated.
SECTION 324 - ILLUMINATION REQUIRED BY A TERTIARY POWER SYSTEM
324.1 General. A tertiary power system shall be provided to automatically illuminate the following areas in the event of primary and secondary power
failure:
1. Electrical equipment rooms.
2. Fire command centers.
3. Fire pump rooms.
4. Generator rooms.
5. Elevator machine rooms.
324.2 Duration and lighting levels. Duration and lighting levels shall be as required by Sections 1008.3.1 and 1008.3.2 of the Building Code.
Exception: Generator rooms shall require 3 footcandles (33 lux) as required by NFPA 110 section 7.3.3.
401.3 Emergency responder notification. Notification of emergency responders shall be in accordance with Sections 401.3.1 through 401.3.4.
401.3.1 Emergency events. Except as provided in Section 401.3.4, in the event an unwanted fire occurs, or upon the discovery of a fire, explosion,
deflagration, smoke or unauthorized release of flammable, toxic, or hazardous materials on any property, the owner or occupant shall immediately report
such condition to the fire department. Building employees and tenants shall implement the appropriate emergency plans and procedures.
401.3.2 Alarm activations. Upon activation of a fire alarm signal, employees or staff shall immediately notify the fire department.
401.3.3 Delayed notification. A person shall not, by verbal or written directive, require any delay in the reporting of a fire or unauthorized chemical release
to the fire department.
401.3.4 Emergency Response Teams and Fire Brigades. Facilities complying with Section 5003.9.1 by maintaining on-site emergency response teams (ERT)
or industrial fire brigades that comply with the requirements of Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulations in 29 CFR 1910.120 or 29
CFR 1910 Subpart L may, on completion of an audit of compliance by the fire code official (audits may be performed during annual inspections by the fire
department) and contingent on continued ERT/fire brigade compliance, develop site-specific procedures for determining reporting requirements based on
facility staffing and qualifications.
401.3.4.1 Guidance is published in the Fire Protection Criteria Manual to help assure equitable assessment of site procedures. The procedures must be
submitted to the fire code official for review and approval. Maintenance of the ERT or fire brigade shall be verified by a periodic audit during inspections by
the fire department. This provision does not waive a facility's or organization's reporting obligations under State or Federal regulations.
401.3.4.2 Failure to maintain and provide records of internal responses will result in revocation of the facility's procedural approach to reporting.
SECTION 408 TEMPORARY CHANGE OF USE PERMITS
408.1 Scope. Temporary Change of Use Permits shall be in accordance with this Section. A temporary permit for a facility or building for public assembly
use is not intended to be a means for creating a permanent assembly occupancy or use.
408.1.2 Temporary Change of Use To a Public Assembly (TCOU) Permit. A TCOU to a public assembly permit is required for any occupancy not classified
as Group A with a gathering of more than 50 people for civic, social, recreational or religious functions. A permit is required for gatherings of 50 or more
people confined by fences, walls or similar occupancies.
408.2 Annual Permit Limit. Not more than twelve TCOU permits shall be issued for a given address during a 12-month period. The measurement period
shall be based on the date the first permit was approved during a given calendar year.
408.2.1 Permit Duration. The duration of the TCOU permit shall not exceed 14 calendar days.
about:blank 579/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
408.3 Permit Application. A TCOU permit application shall be submitted to the fire department for plan review. Applications and required plan information
shall be submitted 21 calendar days prior to the event start date.
408.4 Fire Watch. The Fire Marshal's Office may require a fire watch or standby if additional fire and life safety hazards are identified during plan review.
SECTION 409 FIRST RESPONDER EMERGENCY PLANS
409.1 Scope. First Responder Emergency Plans shall be plans assembled by the fire department to aid First Responders in familiarity with the building and
its fire safety features in the event of an emergency. Plans will also aid with annual maintenance inspections.
409.2 Building Floor Plans. At the completion of new projects, the Architect/Engineer shall submit to the fire department an electronic set of building floor
plan as-builts in an approved format (PDF, DWG, DXF).
409.2.1 Existing Buildings. Existing buildings shall have 3 years to submit building floor plan of fire department.
409.3 Plan Requirements. Building floor plans submitted to fire department shall contain the following information, as applicable:
(a) Locations of exits, exit passageways and horizontal exits.
(b) Location of fire alarm control panel and remote annunciator panel.
(c) Location of fire department connection.
(d) Location of all standpipes and hose valve connections.
(e) Rated wall locations.
503.1 Where required. Fire apparatus access roads shall be provided and maintained in accordance with Sections 503.1.1 through 503.1.5. Where required
fire apparatus access roads are located on property other than a public right-of-way, the required fire apparatus access road shall be located within the
legal boundaries of the property unless otherwise approved by the fire code official.
503.1.1 Buildings and facilities. Approved fire apparatus access roads shall be provided for every facility, building or portion of a building hereafter
constructed or moved into or within the jurisdiction. The fire apparatus access road shall comply with the requirements of this section and shall extend to
within 150 feet (45 720 mm) of all portions of the facility and all portions of the exterior walls of the first story of the building as measured by an approved
route around the exterior of the building or facility.
Exceptions:
1. The fire code official is authorized to increase the dimension of 150 feet (45 720 mm) where any of the following conditions occur:
1.1. The building is equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Sections 903.3.1.1, 903.3.1.2 or
903.3.1.3.
1.2. Fire apparatus access roads cannot be installed because of location on property, topography, waterways, nonnegotiable grades or other similar
conditions, and an approved alternative means of fire protection is provided.
1.3. There are not more than two Group R-3 or Group U occupancies.
2. Where approved by the fire code official, fire apparatus access roads shall be permitted to be exempted or modified for solar photovoltaic power
generation facilities.
3. Where approved by the fire code official, the fire apparatus access roads for a facility, building or portion of a building hereafter constructed, may be
located on adjacent property(s), provided the fire apparatus access roads on the adjacent property(s) are bound in perpetuity to any and all
associated properties necessary to comply with the fire apparatus road requirements herein by either a Unified Development Agreement (UDA) or a
Joint Use Access Easement (JUAE) that is approved and recorded with the county in which the properties are located.
503.1.4 Approval of Fire Zones on Site Plans. The Director of the Development Services Department, or its successor department, shall submit site plans
of proposed commercial developments to the fire code official for review and approval of the adequacy of fire zones before the issuance of a building
permit for the development.
503.1.5 Official records. All required fire apparatus access roads that are not located within a public right-of-way shall be registered with the fire
department.
503.2.1 Dimensions. Fire apparatus access roads shall have an unobstructed width of not less than 25 feet (7620 mm), except for approved security gates
in accordance with Section 503.6 and the Fire Protection Criteria Manual, and an unobstructed vertical clearance of not less than 14 feet (4267 mm).
Exceptions:
1. The unobstructed roadway width may be reduced to less than 25 feet for all or part of the required roadway so long as:
a. the access roadway complies with the appropriate minimum street width for dedicated City streets;
b. any fire access roadway, or portions of such roadways, which are less than 25 feet wide are not in locations where aerial apparatus deployment
could be necessary to achieve control or extinguishment of a fire, and
about:blank 580/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
c. turning radii are adequate for maneuvering fire department and other emergency services vehicles.
2. The unobstructed roadway width may be reduced to less than 25 feet for all or part of the required roadway so long as:
a. The access road complies with the appropriate minimum street width for dedicated City streets.
b. The access roadway is part of a system of roadways or driveways that include interconnected public and/or private roads or driveways that
provide multiple pathways for emergency vehicles to access the structures served by the roadway system, provided that a fire vehicle blocking the
roadway within the narrowed length will not create a dead-end road segment in excess of 150 feet long.
c. The width of each segment is sufficiently wide to accommodate the deployment of emergency vehicles anticipated for that segment during a
potential emergency (e.g. outrigger placement and aerial operations for fires in multi-story structures), and turning radii are adequate for
maneuvering fire department and other emergency services vehicles.
d. Divided roadways serving as fire lanes are allowed to consist of two lanes each 15 feet wide, one on each side of the division in locations where
aerial operations are not anticipated.
e. Throat widths entering a two-way fire access road from a public street (level 1 or 2 street without center left turn lane) shall be allowed to be
transitioned to 20 feet at pedestrian crosswalk locations. The fire access road shall transition back to 25 feet within the lesser of the throat length
to the plane of the first parking stall or crossing drive aisle or transition at a horizontal rate of 1 foot lateral for 15 feet of travel distance after
entering the fire access road. Fire access driveways adjacent to zero lot line buildings shall optimize the regulated driveway width, radii and
mountable curbs to facilitate apparatus navigation. Vertical and horizontal clearances of the apparatus undercarriage with the finished grades
shall be profiled, modeled, evaluated for adequacy and approved by the fire code official.
503.2.3.1 Alternative Surfaces. Alternative surfaces shall be allowed if the installation and materials used comply with the requirements as set forth in the
Fire Protection Criteria Manual. The design engineer of record shall make periodic construction observations and upon substantial competition of the work,
the design engineer shall provide the fire code official an engineer's letter of concurrence that the work and materials were installed in substantial
conformance with the record document.
1. Alternative surfaces shall be a slip resistance surface in locations that require turning movements and a minimum of 40 linear feet located at building
corners for aerial operations. A fire apparatus shall be able to access the scrub areas for both building faces from the slip resistant surface located at
the building corner or apex of curvature.
2. Alternative surfaces shall not be utilized as the only fire access to a building. Alternative surfaces shall be limited to a maximum of 25 percent of the
fire protection along the building perimeter, not adjacent to a fire access road or public roadway. Hose lay distances from the apparatus located on an
alternative surface shall be included with the 25 percent maximum limit for the calculation of fire protection along the building perimeter.
3. Alternative surface fire lanes installed without a type 1 or 2 driveway apron shall utilize at a minimum a reinforced mountable curb. The face and top
of the curb shall be designated fire lane with stripping and signage for the width of the fire lane and the length of curb to prohibit parked cars within
the turning movements from the lane of travel.
503.2.4 Turning radius. The required inside turning radius of a fire apparatus access road shall be 25 feet (7.62 m). The required outside turning radius of a
fire apparatus access road shall be 50 feet (15.24 m). Turn radii where street grades and travel lane widths are sufficient shall be allowed to be reduced to
15' at the entries to driveways with crosswalks from public streets as set forth in the Transportation Criteria Manual. Turning movements onto designated
opposing traffic lanes or where the Austin Strategic Mobility Plan has proposed a raised median in the street section is prohibited.
503.2.6 Bridge and elevated surfaces. Where a bridge or an elevated surface is part of a fire apparatus access road, the bridge shall be constructed and
maintained in accordance with AASHTO HB-17 or the latest addition of AASHTO Load and Resistance Factor Design accepted by the Texas Department of
Transportation. Bridges and elevated surfaces shall be designed for a live load sufficient to carry the imposed loads of fire apparatus. Vehicle load limits
shall be posted at both entrances to bridges where required by the fire code official. A designated fire lane shall be maintained for the purpose of vehicle
access and shall prohibit obstructions as per Section 503.3. The entire bridge deck or elevated surface shall be designed and maintained to support fire
apparatus operations as required and approved by the fire code official.
503.2.6.1 Operational and outrigger loads. Where an elevated surface or structure or portions of a structure are subject to operational loads with
deployment of outriggers utilizing a crane, lift or ladder, the structure shall be designed and maintained to support the following independent static
loading conditions as required and approved by the fire code official: 1) a load of 43,200 pounds on one outrigger and 2) a load of 28,600 pounds on each
of two adjacent outriggers with 18 feet of separation on centers (the total load is 57,200 pounds.) The contact area of each outrigger is 24 inches × 24
inches. In addition to verifying that special inspections per the Building Code, the design engineer of record shall make periodic construction observations
and upon substantial competition of the work, the design engineer shall provide the fire code official an engineer's letter of concurrence that the work and
materials were installed in substantial conformance with the fire code official's record document.
503.3 Designation, Location, and Maintenance of Fire Zones Official Records. All fire apparatus access roads required by Sections 503.1.1 and 3206.6 and
that are out of the public right-of-way, are designated as fire zones or fire lanes, to maintain the required unobstructed clearance in accordance with
Section 503.2.1 as amended. The fire department will keep records of the designation and location of fire zones and fire lanes.
Exception: Fire apparatus access roads between aisles of parking or under porte cocheres need not be designated as fire zones.
about:blank 581/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
503.3.1 Tow Away Zones. All fire zones and fire lanes shall be designated as tow away zones. The designation of the fire zones or fire lanes does not make
the City responsible for the maintenance of the fire zones or fire lanes on private property, but the owner of the property continues to be responsible for
the maintenance of the area.
503.3.2 Signs and Identification Markers Designating Fire Zones/Fire Lanes. After designation of a fire zone or fire lane under this article, the fire code
official shall give notice of the designation to the owner of the property, directing the owner to cause, at the expense of the owner, markings to be painted
on top and face of curb/pavement of any areas designated as a fire zone or fire lane. The markings must be red with white stenciling reading "FIRE
ZONE/TOW AWAY ZONE" or "FIRE LANE/TOW AWAY ZONE" in lettering at least three inches in height. The stenciling shall be at intervals of 35 feet or less. In
addition, the owner shall cause signs to be posted at both ends of a fire zone or fire lane and at each entry and exit point which constitutes a portion of the
fire zone or fire lane. Alternative marking of fire zones and fire lanes may be approved by the fire code official provided fire zones or fire lanes are clearly
identified at both ends and at intervals not to exceed 35 feet and are clearly marked "Tow Away Zones" at least every 35 feet. The signs shall be installed
with the top of the sign no higher than eight feet above grade and no less than five feet above grade.
503.4.1. Traffic calming devices. Geometric street features intended to mitigate unsafe traffic conditions such as speeding or excessive cut-through traffic
shall be designed to address both traffic safety and emergency access requirements. Approved street features shall mitigate the traffic conditions
identified by the city traffic engineer while providing for adequate emergency vehicle access to the satisfaction of the fire department.
503.6 Security gates. The installation of security gates across a fire apparatus access road shall be approved by the fire code official. Where security gates
are installed, they shall have an approved means of emergency operation. The security gates and the emergency operation shall be maintained operational
at all times. Electric gate operators, where provided, shall be listed in accordance with UL 325. Gates intended for automatic operation shall be designed,
constructed and installed to comply with the requirements of ASTM F2200 and the Fire Protection Criteria Manual.
503.7 Persons authorized to Issue Citations. A citation for a charge of parking, standing, or stopping in a fire zone or fire lane in violation of this article
may be issued by a licensed peace officer employed by the City, an employee of the fire department designated by the fire code official, an employee of the
City authorized to issue tickets for parking violations by the City Code, or a private security guard employed by an agency operating under either a license
or a letter of authority issued by the Texas Board of Private Investigators and Private Security Agencies, and who is employed by the owner or lessee of the
property on which a fire zone has been established.
504.1 Required Access. Exterior doors and openings required by the code or the International Building Code shall be maintained accessible for emergency
access by the fire department. An approved access walkway constructed of approved materials at least 36 inches in width leading from fire apparatus
access roads to exterior openings shall be provided when required by the fire code official. The walkway shall be constructed in accordance with Section
1003.4 of the Building Code.
505.1 Address identification. New and existing buildings shall be provided with approved address identification in accordance with the Fire Protection
Criteria Manual.
505.3 Premise Hazard Identification Signs. Structures that the fire code official deems to have the potential to present an unusual level of hazard to
firefighters during fire ground operations shall be identified such that it is readily identifiable to responding fire department personnel. Such structures
may or may not present obvious dangers to the occupants of the building when no fire is present. Potentially hazardous structures may be identified as
prescribed by this code, by the Building Code, or by fire department safety policies and procedures.
505.3.1 Hazardous Address Numbering. Structures that are required to be readily identifiable by responding fire department personnel shall have unique
address numbering signs. The signs shall be installed on all sides of the building facing emergency vehicle access established in accordance with Section
503 or facing an approach directly from public rights-of-way. Signs will consist of the address numbers of the building in 8-inch tall white numbers on a
solid red background. The address numbers will be oriented vertically. The signage will be reflective to be visible at night, weather resistant and
permanent.
507.3 Fire flow. Fire flow requirements for buildings or portions of buildings and facilities shall be determined in accordance with Appendix B.
507.4 Water supply test. The Fire Marshals office shall be notified prior to the water supply test. Water supply tests shall be conducted by or witnessed by
the Fire Marshals office.
507.5.1 Where required. Where a portion of the facility or building hereafter constructed or moved into or within the jurisdiction is more than 400 feet
(122 m) from the nearest hydrant on a fire apparatus access road or more than 500 feet (152 m) from secondary hydrants needed to supply the minimum
fire flow, as measured by an approved route around the exterior of the facility or building, on-site fire hydrants and mains shall be provided where
required by the fire code official.
Exceptions:
1. For Group R-3 and Group U occupancies, the distance requirement shall be 600 feet (183 m).
2. For buildings equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Sections 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2, the
distance requirement for all required fire hydrants shall be 500 feet (152 m).
about:blank 582/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
507.5.3 Private fire service mains and water tanks. Private fire service mains, including private fire hydrants and water tanks, shall be inspected, tested
and maintained consistent with NFPA 25, Standard for Inspection, Testing and Maintenance of Water-Base Fire Protection Systems; the Fire Protection
Criteria Manual and the American Water Works Association (AWWA) Manual M-17, Installation, Field Testing and Maintenance of Fire Hydrants at the
following intervals:
1. Private fire hydrants (all types): Inspection annually and after each operation; flow test and maintenance annually to ensure proper functioning in
accordance with the following:
a. Private fire hydrants shall be flushed annually. Chlorine residual tests will be performed on all private hydrant systems not separated from
potable water uses by an approved back-flow prevention device. The unseparated hydrants shall be flushed until the free chlorine residual meets
or exceeds the 0.2 mg/1 minimum established by the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality in Section 290.46(f)(1) of the Rules and
regulations for Public Water Systems. Chlorine residual shall be determined using the N,N-diethyl-p-phenylenediamine (DPD) method.
b. Static testing shall be performed in accordance with AWWA Manual M-17, Installation, Field Testing and Maintenance of Fire Hydrants, Chapter 4.
c. Flow tests shall be conducted in accordance with Manual M-17, Installation, Field Testing and Maintenance of Fire Hydrants, Chapter 6.
2. Fire service main piping: Inspection of exposed, annually; flow test every 5 years.
3. Fire service main piping strainers: Inspection and maintenance after each use.
507.5.7 Marking of Fire-protection equipment and fire hydrants. Fire-protection equipment and fire hydrants shall be clearly identified in an approved
manner to prevent obstruction by parking and other obstructions.
All fire hydrants shall be painted in accordance with City of Austin Standard Specifications manual. With the approval of the fire code official, private
hydrants may be painted an alternate reflective color; multi-colored hydrants are prohibited. When required by the code official, hydrant locations shall be
identified by the installation of reflective markers.
507.6 Protection of potable water systems. Fire hydrants and the supply piping to them which contain chemicals or additives shall be separated from
sources of potable water by a reduced pressure backflow assembly installed at the connection to the potable water system. Backflow assemblies shall be
operationally tested and maintained in accordance with City Code Chapter 15-1 (Cross-Connection Regulations).
Private fire hydrants located at a distance from a flowing water service such that the volume of water in the hydrant lead is more than 100 gallons shall
have backflow prevention protection as required by Chapter 15-1 (Cross-Connection Regulations).
Private fire hydrant systems not maintained, flushed and tested for chlorine residual in accordance with Section 507.5.3, item 1 a. shall be provided with
backflow prevention protection in accordance with Chapter 15-1 (Cross-Connection Regulations).
507.6.1 Special inspections. Austin Water shall inspect private property to identify each existing private fire hydrant connected to the City's potable water
distribution system. The owner of the property or the water service customer shall bear the costs and the responsibility to provide a flushing and
maintenance program in accordance with Section 507.5.3 or to provide backflow prevention protection in accordance with Chapter 15-1 (Cross-Connection
Regulations).
Further modifications shall be made by, and at the expense of, the property owner or water service customer as necessary to correct any water supply
deficiencies (flow or pressure) resulting from the installation of required backflow prevention protection assemblies.
508.1.6 Required Features. The fire command center shall comply with NFPA 72 and shall contain the following features:
Items 1 through 6 remain unchanged.
7. Controls for unlocking stairway doors simultaneously. Stairways doors shall be physically unlocked by UL listed fire alarm system components. The
unlocking means shall be a red light switch mounted on the wall in the command room with appropriate signage or other approved method.
Items 8 through 13.3 remain unchanged.
13.4 Exit access stairway and exit stairway information that includes: number of exit access stairways and exit stairways in building, each exit access
stairway and exit stairway designation and floors served; location where each exit access stairway and exit stairway discharges; interior exit stairways
that are pressurized; exit stairways provided with emergency lighting; each exit stairway that allows reentry; exit stairways providing roof access;
elevator information that includes: number of elevator banks, elevator bank designation, elevator car numbers and respective floors that they serve;
location of elevator machine rooms, control rooms and control spaces; location of sky lobby; location of freight elevator banks; location of the Fire-
fighters Service Access Elevator banks when applicable; and location of Occupant Evacuation Elevator banks when applicable.
Items 13.5 through 18 remain unchanged.
508.1.7 Fire command center identification. The fire command center shall be identified by a permanent, easily visible sign stating "FIRE COMMAND
CENTER" located on the door to the fire command center. Additional signage as required by the fire code official shall be provided when the fire command
center is located in an area not readily visible when entering the building.
510.5.3 Minimum qualifications of personnel. Except as otherwise provided, the minimum qualifications of the system designer and lead installation
personnel shall include all of the following:
about:blank 583/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
1. A valid FCC-issued general radio operator's license.
2. Certification of in-building system training issued by an approved organization or approved school, or a certificate issued by the manufacturer of the
equipment being installed.
3. Qualified as required by the fire code official.
These qualifications shall not be required where demonstration of adequate skills and experience satisfactory to the fire code official is provided.
605.4 Fuel oil storage systems. Fuel oil storage systems for building heating systems shall be installed and maintained in accordance with this code. Tanks
and fuel-oil piping systems shall be installed in accordance with the Mechanical Code. Aboveground storage tanks and piping for generators shall comply
Chapter 57.
605.4.1.2 Fuel oil storage for stationary generators. Aboveground outdoor fuel oil storage for stationary generators in quantities exceeding 660 gallons
shall meet the following requirements:
(1) All storage must be located 50 ft. from a property line that is or can be built upon, including the opposite side of a public way.
(2) For installations storing all fuel oil in UL 2085 Aboveground Storage Tank, the distance from a property line that is or can be built upon, including the
opposite side of a public way shall be in accordance with NFPA 30.
(3) All tank openings shall be above the tank liquid level.
(4) All installations exceeding an aggregate volume of 20,000 gallons (75708 L) shall be subject to public notification requirements of Section 5704.2.9.6.1,
Exception 3.
605.4.2 Fuel oil storage inside buildings. Fuel oil storage inside buildings shall comply with Sections 605.4.2.2 through 605.4.2.8 and Chapter 57.
605.4.2.1 Approval. Indoor fuel oil storage tanks shall be in accordance with UL 80, UL 142 or UL 2085.
605.4.2.2 Quantity limits. One or more fuel oil storage tanks containing Class II or III combustible liquid shall be permitted in a building. The aggregate
capacity of all tanks shall not exceed the following:
(1) 120 gallons of Class II combustible liquid in unsprinklered buildings where stored in a tank complying with UL 80, UL 142 or UL 2085.
(2) 330 gallons of Class III combustible liquid in unsprinklered buildings where stored in a tank complying with UL 80, UL 142 or UL 2085.
(3) 660 gallons (2498 L) in buildings equipped with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1, where stored in a tank complying
with UL 80, UL 142 or UL2085.
(4) 3,000 gallons (11 356 L) in a building equipped with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 9-3.1.1, when all of the following are
met:
(a) All storage is in protected aboveground tanks complying with UL 2085 and Section 5704.2.9.7.
(b) Tanks are listed as secondary containment tanks as required by UL 2085 and the secondary containment is monitored visually or automatically.
(c) All storage is located 6 stories or less above the lowest level of fire department access.
(d) All piping for the tanks above the ground level have welded connections except where replaceable components are installed
605.4.2.3 Restricted use and connection. Tanks installed in accordance with Section 605.4.2 shall be used only to supply fuel oil to fuel-burning equipment,
generators or fire pumps installed in accordance with Section 605.4.2.5. Connections between tanks and equipment supplied by such tanks shall be made
using closed piping systems in accordance with the Mechanical Code. Closed piping systems for generators shall comply with Chapter 57.
605.4.2.6 Separation. Rooms containing fuel oil tanks for internal combustion engines shall be separated from the remainder of the building by fire
barriers, horizontal assemblies, or both, with a minimum 1-hour fire-resistance rating with 1-hour fire-protection-rated opening protectives constructed in
accordance with the Building Code.
[M] 606.2 Where required. A Type I hood shall be installed at or above all commercial cooking appliances and domestic cooking appliances used for
commercial purposes that produce grease vapors.
Exception: A Type I hood shall not be required for an electric cooking appliance where an approved testing agency provides documentation that the
appliance effluent contains less than 5 mg/m 3 or less of grease when tested at an exhaust flow rate of 500 CFM (0.236 m 3 /s) in accordance with UL 710B.
The appliance component controls and safety interlocks shall be inspected in accordance with the manufacturer installation instructions by qualified
service personnel a minimum of once every 6 months and results of the inspection shall be available on the premises for review by the fire code official.
When provided, automatic fire extinguishing systems shall be in accordance with Section 904.12.
SECTION 611 AUTOMATED EXTERNAL DEFIBRILLATOR (AED) IN HIGH-RISE BUILDINGS
611.1 Locations. All buildings that have occupied floors located more than 75 feet (22 860 mm) above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access
shall have at least one Automated External Defibrillator (AED) located on each occupied level.
Exception: The provisions of this section shall not apply to the following buildings and structures:
about:blank 584/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
(1) Airport traffic control towers in accordance with Section 412.2 of the Building Code.
(2) Open parking garages in accordance with Section 406.5 of the Building Code.
(3) Group A-5 occupancies in accordance Section 303.6 of the Building Code.
(4) Group H-1, H-2 or H-3 in accordance with Section 415 of the Building Code.
611.2 Type. All AEDs used in high-rise buildings must be of the type approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
611.3 Accessibility. All AEDs must be available for public use.
1. All AEDs shall be located in the elevator lobby unless otherwise approved by the fire code official.
2. Standard industry accepted signs shall mark the location of each AED.
611.4 Maintenance. All AEDs shall be maintained and tested according to manufacturer recommendations.
1. Maintenance records shall be kept for a period of 1 year.
2. Disposable supplies (Defibrillation pads) shall be replaced upon their expiration date or following use.
611.5 Medical Direction. A licensed physician shall be involved to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Health and Safety Code, chapter 779,
Automated External Defibrillators.
611.6 Training. The person or entity that acquires an AED shall ensure that users are trained in cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and use of the
automated external defibrillator (AED) in a course approved by the Texas Department of State Health Services.
611.7 Notifying Emergency Medical Services Providers. Upon acquisition of an AED, the person or entity shall notify the fire department AED Coordinator
of the existence, location and type of AED.
901.4.7.3 Environment. Automatic sprinkler system riser rooms and fire pump rooms shall be maintained at a temperature of not less than 40°F (4°C).
Heating units shall be permanently installed and thermostatically controlled.
901.6.2 Integrated Testing. Where two or more fire protection or life safety systems are interconnected, the intended response of subordinate fire
protection and life safety systems shall be verified when required testing of the initiating system is conducted, when required by the fire code official.
901.6.3 Records. Records of all system inspections, tests and maintenance required by the referenced standards shall be maintained on the premises for a
minimum of three years and shall be copied to the fire code official upon request.
903.2.1.6 Assembly occupancies on roofs. Where an occupied roof has an assembly occupancy with an occupant load exceeding 100 for Group A-2 and/or
300 for other Group A occupancies, all floors between the occupied roof and the level of exit discharge shall be equipped with an automatic sprinkler
system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1.
Exception: Open parking garages of Type I or II construction.
903.2.2.3 Group B - Animal Housing or Care Facilities. An automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Sections 903.3 and 903.4 shall be provided in fire
areas containing an animal housing or care facility when the animals are not provided with constant supervision.
Exceptions:
1. An automatic sprinkler system is not required in animal housing or care facilities serving 25 or fewer animals where all of the following conditions are
met:
a. Walls and ceilings have a Class A finish as specified in Section 803; and
b. The facility is provided with a supervised fire alarm system in accordance with Section 907.2.2.2.
2. An automatic sprinkler system is not required in animal housing or care facility serving 50 or fewer animals where all of the following conditions are
met:
a. The facility is of one (1) hour fire resistive construction on both sides of the boundary walls of the kennel area;
b. Walls and ceilings have a Class A finish as specified in Section 803; and
c. The facility is provided with a supervised fire alarm system in accordance with Section 907.2.2.2.
903.2.4.2 Group F-1 distilled spirits and beverages. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout a Group F-1 fire area used for the
manufacture or mixing of over 20% by volume (15.8% by weight) of ethyl alcohol distilled spirits in an aqueous solution in a volume exceeding the
Maximum Allowable Quantity per Control Area.
903.3.1.1.1 Exempt locations. When approved, automatic sprinkler protection shall not be required in the following rooms or areas where such rooms or
areas are protected with an approved automatic fire detection system in accordance with Section 907.2 that will respond to visible or invisible particles of
combustion. Sprinklers shall not be omitted from a room merely because it is damp, of fire-resistance-rated construction or contains electrical equipment.
1. Provision remains unchanged.
about:blank 585/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
2. Transformer rooms owned and operated by an electric utility and separated from the remainder of the building by walls and floor/ceiling or
roof/ceiling assemblies having a fire-resistance rating of not less than two hours. The automatic fire detection system for exempt locations is not
required.
3. Provision remains unchanged.
4. Provision remains unchanged.
5. Provision remains unchanged.
903.3.1.2.4 Balcony closets. Sprinkler protection shall be provided for all balcony closets.
903.3.5 Water supplies. Water supplies for automatic sprinkler systems shall comply with this section and the standards referenced in Section 903.3.1. Fire
hydrant flow tests shall be in accordance with Section 507.4. Protection of potable water supplies shall be in accordance with Section 507.5.6 and the
Plumbing Code.
903.3.5.3 Safety Factor. Water supplies designed for automatic sprinkler systems shall provide a safety factor of 10 pounds per square inch gauge (PSIG).
The safety factor shall be based on the calculated system design flow and pressure.
Exception: A safety factor less than those defined in this Section may be approved by the fire code official only if historical water supply data is available
to demonstrate that reasonable expected fluctuations will not cause the water supply to fall below the system demand.
903.3.6 Hose threads. Fire hose threads and fittings used in connection with automatic sprinkler systems shall be approved and shall be National Standard
Hose Thread.
903.3.10 Flexible Sprinkler Hose Fittings. Flexible hoses used in automatic sprinkler systems shall be limited in length to a maximum of 6 feet. The
extinguishing agent shall pass through a maximum of one 6-foot section before discharging from the sprinkler orifice (head). Approval of shop drawing
submittals shall be required for all uses of flexible hose sprinkler piping, and where more than one flexible hose sprinkler drop is used in a remodel
application, the adequacy of the water supply shall be verified by hydraulic calculations.
Exception: The provisions of this section shall not apply when the manufacturer's data sheet does not require an equivalent length.
903.4.3 Alarms. A listed fire alarm bell, located on the exterior of the building in an approved location, shall be connected to each automatic sprinkler
system. The fire alarm bell shall be activated by water flow equivalent to the flow of a single sprinkler of the smallest orifice size installed in the system.
Where a fire alarm system is installed, actuation of the automatic sprinkler system shall actuate the building fire alarm system.
904.14 Commercial cooking systems. The automatic fire-extinguishing system for commercial cooking systems shall be of a type recognized for protection
of commercial cooking equipment and exhaust systems of the type and arrangement protected. Each preengineered automatic dry- and wet-chemical
extinguishing system shall be tested in accordance with UL 300 and listed and labeled for its intended application. Other types of extinguishing systems
shall be listed and labeled for specific use as protection for commercial cooking operations. The system shall be installed in accordance with this code, its
listing and the manufacturer's installation instructions. Automatic fire-extinguishing systems of the following types shall be installed in accordance with the
referenced standard indicated, as follows:
1. Carbon-dioxide extinguishing systems, NFPA 12.
2. Automatic sprinkler system, NFPA 13.
3. Foam-water sprinkler system or foam-water spray systems, NFPA 16.
4. Dry-chemical extinguishing systems, NFPA 17.
5. Wet-chemical extinguishing systems, NFPA 17A.
Exception 1: Factory-built commercial cooking recirculating systems that are tested in accordance with UL 710B, and listed and installed in accordance
with Section 304.1 of the Mechanical Code.
Exception 2: With the concurrence of the building official, commercial cooking equipment used intermittently for periods which total less than 6 hours
per week may be served by a Type II ventilation hood without fixed fire suppression. A portable fire extinguisher rated for commercial cooking
applications shall be provided.
905.3.3 Covered and open mall buildings. Covered mall and open mall buildings shall be equipped throughout with a standpipe system where required by
Section 905.3.1. Mall buildings not required to be equipped with a standpipe system by Section 905.3.1 shall be equipped with Class I hose connections
connected to the automatic sprinkler system sized to deliver water at 250 gallons per minute (946.4 L/min) at the hydraulically most remote hose
connection while concurrently supplying the automatic sprinkler system demand. The standpipe system shall be designed not to exceed a 50 pounds per
square inch (psi) (345 kPa) residual pressure loss with a flow of 250 gallons per minute (946.4 L/min) from the fire department connection to the
hydraulically most remote hose connection. Hose connections shall be provided at each of the following locations:
1. Within the mall at the entrance to each exit passageway or corridor.
2. At each intermediate floor landing within interior exit stairways opening directly on the mall.
3. At exterior public entrances to the mall of a covered mall building.
about:blank 586/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
4. At public entrances at the perimeter line of an open mall building.
5. At other locations as necessary so that the distance to reach all portions of a tenant space does not exceed 200 feet (60 960 mm) from a hose
connection.
905.4 Location of Class I standpipe hose connections. Class I standpipe hose connections shall be provided in all of the following locations:
(1) In every required interior exit stairway or exterior exit stairway, a hose connection shall be provided for each story above and below grade plane.
Hose connections shall be located at the intermediate floor landing unless otherwise approved by the fire code official.
Items 2 through 4 and item 6 remain unchanged
(5) Where the roof has a slope less than 4 units vertical in 12 units horizontal (33.3 percent slope), a hose connection shall be located at the roof or at the
highest landing of a stairway with stair access to the roof provided in accordance with Section 1011.12. An additional hose connection shall be
provided at the top of the most hydraulically remote standpipe for testing purposes.
907.2.1.3 Electrical Shunt for Amplified Sound Conditions. For venues with amplified music or sound systems, in Group A occupancies having an occupant
load of 300 or more, electrical shunts shall be provided to de-energize the music or sound systems upon alarm activation as necessary to demonstrate
compliance with the audibility requirements of NFPA 72.
907.2.2.3 Animal Housing or Care Facilities. Fire areas containing an animal housing or care facility shall be provided with an electronically supervised
automatic smoke detection system. In spaces provided with a source of heat or light but otherwise unconditioned, in lieu of smoke detection the alarm
system may be activated by quick response heat detectors with a response time index (RTI) of less than 100 (ie. RTI classification of "Quick", "Ultrafast", "V-
fast").
Exception: Smoke detectors and/or quick response heat detectors are not required where the building is equipped with an automatic sprinkler system
installed in accordance with Sections 903.3 and 903.4 and activation of the automatics sprinkler system activates notification appliances as required by
Section 907.2.2.3.1.
907.2.2.3.1 Notification Appliances. Notification appliances shall provide audible and visual alarm signals in office areas and other areas within the fire
area where no animals are housed or cared for. Notification appliances within the areas animals are housed or cared for shall provide visual only
notification.
907.2.3.1 Common Areas within a Group E Day Care Occupancies. Group E Day care occupancies shall be provided with a fire alarm system in accordance
with Section 907.2.3 and shall be protected by smoke detectors installed in accordance with this section, the listing of the detectors and NFPA 72, and shall
activate notification in accordance with Section 907.5.
Detectors shall be placed throughout all corridors of all floors containing the day care facility, in lounges, and in each room occupied by children.
Exceptions:
1. A day care housed within and serving the students of a Group E occupancy, such as a public charter or private school, grades K-12, is permitted to
comply with the alarm and detection requirements of Section 907.2.3.
2. Group E day cares serving 12 or fewer children located in a state licensed or registered Child-Care Home, provided that the dwelling is protected with
interconnected hard wired smoke alarms located as required by this section, 907.2.3.1, and powered as required for a new home in accordance with
the Residential Code and NFPA 72 or battery operated in accordance with Section 1103.8.3 and maintained in accordance with Section 1103.8.4. When
such day cares serve hearing impaired children, parents, or guardians, the smoke alarms shall be listed for both audible and visual alarm service.
907.2.6.4 Common Areas within Group I-4 Day Care Occupancies. Group I-4 day care occupancies shall be protected by a fire alarm system which
monitors smoke detectors installed in accordance with this section, the listing of the detectors and NFPA 72 and activates notification devices in
accordance with Section 907.5. Detectors shall be placed on each story in front of doors to the stairways throughout the corridors of all floors containing
the day care facility, lounges and each room used by occupants receiving custodial care.
907.6.1.1 Surge protection devices. Surge protection devices (SPDs) for fire alarm circuits shall be in accordance with Sections 907.6.1.1 through 907.6.1.3.
SPDs shall be listed for the repeated limiting of transient voltage surges on 60 Hertz power circuits not exceeding 1,000 Volts in accordance with UL 1449,
Standard for Surge Protective Devices. SPDs for power-limited and non-power-limited fire alarm circuits shall be listed in accordance with UL 497B
Protectors for Data Communications and Fire Alarm Circuits.
907.6.1.2 Circuits extending beyond one building. Non-power-limited and power-limited signaling system circuits that extend beyond building and routed
outdoors shall be provided with surge protection devices (SPDs) in accordance with Article 760.32 of the Electrical Code.
907.6.1.3 Fire Alarm Equipment. An SPD shall be installed on the dedicated AC branch circuit connected to any piece of fire alarm equipment that requires
a dedicated AC branch circuit.
907.6.1.4 Signaling Line Circuit (SLC) Protection. Each SLC shall be provided with an SPD at the connection to the panel that controls the SLC.
about:blank 587/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
907.6.7 Annunciation and control. The main fire alarm control panel or a full function remote annunciator shall be installed at the main entrance or at an
approved location near the main entrance of buildings with fire alarm systems.
909.5 Smoke barrier construction. Smoke barriers required for passive smoke control and a smoke control system using the pressurization method shall
comply with Section 709 of the International Building Code. Smoke barriers shall be constructed and sealed to limit leakage areas exclusive of protected
openings. The maximum allowable leakage area shall be the aggregate area calculated using the following leakage area ratios:
1. Walls: A/A = 0.00035 (includes construction cracks, and cracks around windows and doors).
w
2. Interior exit stairways and ramps and exit passageways: A/A = 0.00035 (includes construction cracks but not cracks around windows or doors).
w
3. Exterior exit stairways and ramps and exit passageways: A/A = 0.0018 (includes construction cracks but not cracks around doors).
w
4. Floors and roofs: A/A F = 0.00017 (includes construction cracks and gaps around penetrations).
Where:
A = Total leakage area, square feet (m 2 ).
A = Unit floor or roof area of barrier, square feet (m 2 ).
F
A = Unit wall area of barrier, square feet (m 2 ).
w
The leakage area ratios shown do not include openings due to gaps around doors and operable windows. The total leakage area of the smoke barrier shall
be determined in accordance with Section 909.5.1 and tested in accordance with Section 909.5.2.
909.10.2 Ducts. Duct materials and joints shall be capable of withstanding the probable temperatures and pressures to which they are exposed as
determined in accordance with Section 909.10. Shafts constructed of gypsum board or gypsum panel products are not allowed. Ducts shall be constructed
and supported in accordance with the Mechanical Code. Ducts shall be leak tested to 1.5 times the maximum design pressure in accordance with nationally
accepted practices. Measured leakage shall not exceed 5 percent of design flow. Results of such testing shall be a part of the documentation procedure.
Ducts shall be supported directly from fire-resistance-rated structural elements of the building by substantial, noncombustible supports.
Exception: Flexible connections, for the purpose of vibration isolation, complying with the Mechanical Code and that are constructed of approved fire-
resistance-rated materials.
909.20.4.1 Pressurization system. Using fans with motor speeds controlled by variable frequency drives, the stair shall be pressurized to accommodate
two conditions:
1. All stair doors closed.
2. All stair doors closed plus all stair tower exterior ground floor level doors opened.
Validation of the pressurization fan sizes shall include the analysis described in Section 909.4 under both winter and summer conditions using the most
recent ASHRAE climatic data tables for Austin, Texas. Sizing of pressurization fans shall be performed using computer modeling software as approved by
the fire code official.
909.20.4.2 Door Opening Force. Interior exit stairway and ramp doors shall not exceed 30 pounds (133 N) maximum force to begin opening the door.
909.20.4.3 Damper relief opening. A relief vent sized at 5,000 cfm and an opening point of 0.35 inch of water (field adjustable) shall be provided at the
upper portion of the stair shaft.
909.22.6 Components bypassing weekly test. Where components of the smoke control system are bypassed by the preprogrammed weekly test required
by Section 909.12.1, such components shall be tested annually. The system shall be tested under standby power conditions.
912.4.1.1 Locking fire department connection caps in existing buildings or structures. The fire code official is authorized to require locking caps on fire
department connections (FDC) for water-based fire protection systems serving existing buildings where the fire department has observed obstructions
placed in the FDC or where the FDC is missing caps. The locking caps shall be by an approved manufacturer and used and maintained as designed.
912.5 Signs. For new and existing structures, an all-weather, permanent sign shall be placed in a visible location adjacent to fire department connections
serving automatic sprinklers, standpipes or fire pump connections. The text shall be white reflective letters on a red background. Such signs shall read:
"FDC", "AUTOMATIC SPRINKLERS," "STANDPIPES," "TEST CONNECTION," "STANDPIPE AND AUTOSPKR" or "AUTOSPKR AND STANDPIPE," or a combination
thereof as applicable.
912.5.1 Lettering. Each fire department connection (FDC) shall be designated by a sign having the letters "FDC" not less than six inches (152 mm) in height
and words in letters not less than two inches (51 mm) in height. For manual standpipe systems, the sign shall also indicate that the system is manual and
that it is either wet or dry.
912.5.5 Indication of pressure reducing valves. Where pressure reducing valves are provided within the building, the sign shall indicate the range of floor
levels.
about:blank 588/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
913.1.1 Fire Pump Rating. Fire pump(s) for fire protection shall be selected so that the greatest single demand for any fire protection system connected to
the pump is less than or equal to 125 percent of the rated capacity (flow) of the pump.
913.2.2.1 Fire Pump Disconnect. Fire pump(s) shall not have any electrical disconnecting means between the utility transformer and the electric fire pump
controller.
913.3.1.2 Freeze Protection for Fire Pump Room. The temperature maintenance required by 913.3 shall be maintained at all times and shall be connected
to the building standby power system when required.
SECTION 915 CARBON MONOXIDE (CO) DETECTION
915.1 General. Carbon monoxide detection shall be installed in new buildings in accordance with Sections 915.1.1 through 915.6. Carbon monoxide
detection shall be installed in existing buildings in accordance with Section 1103.9.
915.1.1 Where required. Carbon monoxide detection shall be provided in Group I-1, I-2, I-4 and R occupancies and in classrooms in Group E occupancies in
the locations specified in Section 915.2 where any of the conditions in Sections 915.1.2 through 915.1.6 exist.
915.1.2 Fuel-burning appliances and fuel-burning fireplaces. Carbon monoxide detection shall be provided in dwelling units, sleeping units and
classrooms that contain a fuel-burning appliance or a fuel-burning fireplace.
915.1.3 Fuel-burning forced-air furnaces. Carbon monoxide detection shall be provided in dwelling units, sleeping units and classrooms served by a fuel-
burning, forced-air furnace.
Exception: Carbon monoxide detection shall not be required in dwelling units, sleeping units and classrooms where a carbon monoxide detector is
provided in the first room or area served by each main duct leaving the furnace, and the carbon monoxide alarm signals are automatically transmitted to
an approved location.
915.1.4 Fuel-burning appliances outside of dwelling units, sleeping units and classrooms. Carbon monoxide detection shall be provided in dwelling units,
sleeping units and classrooms located in buildings that contain fuel-burning appliances or fuel-burning fireplaces.
Exceptions:
1. Carbon monoxide detection shall not be required in dwelling units, sleeping units and classrooms without communicating openings between the fuel-
burning appliance or fuel-burning fireplace and the dwelling unit, sleeping unit or classroom.
2. Carbon monoxide detection shall not be required in dwelling units, sleeping units and classrooms where a carbon monoxide detector is provided in
one of the following locations:
2.1. In an approved location between the fuel-burning appliance or fuel-burning fireplace and the dwelling unit, sleeping unit or classroom.
2.2. On the ceiling of the room containing the fuel-burning appliance or fuel-burning fireplace.
915.1.5 Private garages. Carbon monoxide detection shall be provided in dwelling units, sleeping units and classrooms in buildings with attached private
garages.
Exceptions:
1. Carbon monoxide detection shall not be required in dwelling units, sleeping units and classrooms without communicating openings between the
private garage and the dwelling unit, sleeping unit or classroom.
2. Carbon monoxide detection shall not be required in dwelling units, sleeping units and classrooms located more than one story above or below a
private garage.
3. Carbon monoxide detection shall not be required where the private garage connects to the building through an open-ended corridor.
4. Where a carbon monoxide detector is provided in an approved location between openings to a private garage and dwelling units, sleeping units or
classrooms.
915.1.6 Exempt garages. For determining compliance with Section 915.1.5, an open parking garage complying with Section 406.5 of the Building Code or an
enclosed parking garage complying with Section 406.6 of the Building Code shall not be considered a private garage.
915.2 Locations. Where required by Section 915.1.1, carbon monoxide detection shall be installed in the locations specified in Sections 915.2.1 through
915.2.3.
915.2.1 Dwelling units. Carbon monoxide detection shall be installed in dwelling units outside of each separate sleeping area in the immediate vicinity of
the bedrooms. Where a fuel-burning appliance is located within a bedroom or its attached bathroom, carbon monoxide detection shall be installed within
the bedroom.
915.2.2 Sleeping units. Carbon monoxide detection shall be installed in sleeping units.
Exception: Carbon monoxide detection shall be allowed to be installed outside of each separate sleeping area in the immediate vicinity of the sleeping
unit where the sleeping unit or its attached bathroom does not contain a fuel-burning appliance and is not served by a forced-air furnace.
about:blank 589/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
915.2.3 Group E occupancies. Carbon monoxide detectors shall be installed in classrooms in Group E occupancies. Carbon monoxide alarm signals shall be
automatically transmitted to an on-site location that is staffed by school personnel.
Exception: Carbon monoxide alarm signals shall not be required to be automatically transmitted to an onsite location that is staffed by school personnel
in Group E occupancies with an occupant load of 30 or less.
915.4.3 Locations. Carbon monoxide alarms shall only be installed in dwelling units and in sleeping units. They shall not be installed in locations where the
code requires carbon monoxide detectors to be used.
915.4.4 Combination alarms. Combination carbon monoxide/smoke alarms shall be an acceptable alternative to carbon monoxide alarms. Combination
carbon monoxide/smoke alarms shall be listed in accordance with UL 217 and UL 2034.
915.4.5 Interconnection. Where more than one carbon monoxide alarm is required to be installed, carbon monoxide alarms shall be interconnected in
such a manner that the actuation of one alarm will activate all of the alarms. Physical interconnection of carbon monoxide alarms shall not be required
where listed wireless alarms are installed and all alarms sound upon activation of one alarm.
915.5 Carbon monoxide detection systems. Carbon monoxide detection systems shall be an acceptable alternative to carbon monoxide alarms and shall
comply with Sections 915.5.1 through 915.5.3.
915.5.1 General. Carbon monoxide detection systems shall comply with NFPA 720. Carbon monoxide detectors shall be listed in accordance with UL 2075.
915.5.2 Locations. Carbon monoxide detectors shall be installed in the locations specified in Section 915.2. These locations supersede the locations
specified in NFPA 720.
915.5.3 Combination detectors. Combination carbon monoxide/smoke detectors installed in carbon monoxide detection systems shall be an acceptable
alternative to carbon monoxide detectors, provided that they are listed in accordance with UL 268 and UL 2075.
915.6 Maintenance. Carbon monoxide alarms and carbon monoxide detection systems shall be maintained in accordance with NFPA 720. Carbon
monoxide alarms and carbon monoxide detectors that become inoperable or begin producing end-of-life signals shall be replaced.
916.1 Gas detection systems. Gas detection systems required by this code shall comply with Sections 916.2 through 916.11. When prescribed by other
adopted standards, vapor detector systems shall comply with Section 916.
Carbon monoxide detection systems shall comply with Section 915.
Carbon dioxide gas detectors for insulated liquid carbon dioxide systems used in beverage dispensing application shall comply with Section 5307.3.
916.4 Power connections. Gas detection systems supplies shall be in accordance with Section 907.6.2. Carbon dioxide gas detectors for beverage
dispensing applications shall be permitted to be cord connected to an unswitched receptacle using an approved restraining means that secures the plug to
the receptacle.
916.5 Emergency and standby power. Standby or emergency power shall be provided in accordance with Section 1203.2.7. The gas detection system shall
initiate a supervisory signal at an approved location if the secondary power supply is interrupted.
916.6 Gas detector locations. Gas detectors shall be installed at approved storage or use locations where leaking gases are expected to accumulate. Gases
or vapors that present a health hazard and are stored or used outside of gas rooms, gas cabinets or exhausted enclosures shall be located based on the
vapor density of the gas at NTP.
916.6.1 Gas detector selection. Gas detectors shall selected be based on the physical hazard or health hazard of the hazardous material being measured.
916.7 Gas sampling. Gas sampling shall be performed continuously. Sample analysis shall be processed immediately after sampling, except as follows:
1. For HPM gases, sample analysis shall be performed at intervals not exceeding 30 minutes.
2. For highly toxic and toxic gases, sample analysis shall be performed at intervals not exceeding 5 minutes, in accordance with Section 6004.2.2.7.
3. Where a less frequent or delayed sampling interval is approved.
916.8 System activation. A gas detection alarm shall be initiated where any detector detects a concentration of gas exceeding the following thresholds:
1. For flammable gases, a gas concentration exceeding 25 percent of the lower flammability limit (LFL).
2. For nonflammable gases, a gas concentration exceeding its Permissible Exposure Limit or 8-hour Time-Weighted Average, unless a different threshold
is specified by the section of this code requiring a gas detection system.
3. For simple asphyxiant gases, a gas concentration equal to or less than 19.5% volume of oxygen in air at NTP.
Upon activation of a gas detection alarm, alarm signals or other required responses shall be as specified by the section of this code requiring a gas
detection system. Audible and visible alarm signals associated with a gas detection alarm shall be distinct from fire alarm and carbon monoxide alarm
signals.
about:blank 590/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
916.10 Fire alarm system connections. Gas detectors and gas detection systems connected to fire alarm systems shall be in accordance with NFPA 72.
1001.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall specify the requirements of means of egress and shall apply to the design, installation of means of
egress. For those requirements, refer to the Building Code. Refer to Section 1032 for maintenance of the means of egress.
1032.2 Reliability. Required exit accesses, exits or exit discharges shall be continuously maintained free from obstructions or impediments to full instant
use in the case of fire or other emergency when the areas served by such exits are occupied. Security devices, including drop bars, affecting means of
egress shall require approval of the fire code official. Doors utilizing drop bars must have signage on the exterior of the door stating "Door equipped with
drop bar". Doors utilizing drop bars must have signage on the interior of the door stating "Drop bar must be removed when building is occupied". When
security devices are not in use, they must be secured in a manner where unauthorized use is prevented, such as:
1. Locking bar in a keeper near the door.
2. Securing bar in an office, locked closet, or similar location not accessible to the general public.
Approval to use security devices outside the scope of this code may be revoked for failure to meet the letter and intent of these rules.
1103.5.6 Group B ambulatory care facilities. An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed throughout all existing fire areas containing a Group B
ambulatory care facility occupancy when the facility is designed to allow either of the following conditions to exist at any time:
1. Four or more care recipients are incapable of self-preservation.
2. One or more care recipients who are incapable of self-preservation are located at other than the level of exit discharge serving such occupancy.
1103.7.7 Animal Housing or Care Facilities. An electronically supervised automatic smoke detection system complying with Section 907.2.2.2 shall be
installed in all fire areas containing an existing Group B Animal Housing or Care Facility if without constant supervision when any work requiring a permit is
performed.
1103.9 Carbon monoxide alarms. When interior work requiring a building permit is done in existing Group I-1, I-2, I-4, and R occupancies, they shall be
equipped with carbon monoxide alarms in accordance with Section 915 in the unit(s) in which the work was performed, except that the carbon monoxide
alarms shall be allowed to be solely battery operated.
1203.2.20 Freeze Protection Equipment. In buildings required to be provided with emergency and/or standby power systems, all equipment required to
provide freeze protection for any water-based fire protection system or equipment shall be provided with standby power.
1207.1.3 Scope. Energy Storage System (ESS) having capacities exceeding the values in Table 1207.1.1 shall comply with this section.
TABLE 1207.1.3
ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM (ESS)
THRESHOLD QUANTITIES
TECHNOLOGY ENERGY CAPACITYa
Capacitor ESS 3 kWhr
Flow Batteries b 20 kWhr
Lead-acid batteries, all types See Section 1207.1.2, item 3
Lithium-ion batteries 20 kWhr
Nickel metal hydride (Ni-MH) 70 kWhr
Nickel-cadmium batteries (Ni-Cd) See Section 1207.1.2, item 3
Other battery technologies 10 kWhr
Other electrochemical ESS technology 3 kWhr
a. Energy capacity is the total energy capable of being stored (nameplate rating), not the usable energy rating. For units rated in amp-hours,
kWhr shall equal rated voltage time amp-hour rating divided by 1,000.
b. Shall include vanadium, zinc-bromine, polysulfide-bromide and other flowing electrolyte type technologies.
about:blank 591/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
1207.1.4 Permits. Permits shall be obtained for ESS as follows:
1. Construction permits shall be obtained for stationary ESS installations and mobile ESS charging and mobile station covered by Section 1207.10.1.
Permits shall be obtained in accordance with Section 105.5.22.
2. Operational permits shall be obtained for stationary ESS installations and mobile ESS charging and mobile station covered by Section 1207.1.1 that
employ Capacitor ESS, Lithium-ion batteries, Ni-MH, or other electrochemical ESS technologies. Permits shall be obtained in accordance with Section
105.5.22.
3. Operational permits for stationary ESS installations utilizing fifteen or more U.S. gallons of corrosive electrolyte in flooded lead-acid, valve regulated
lead-acid batteries or Ni-Cd batteries be obtained in accordance with Section 105.5.22 based on Health Hazard Category 3 liquids.
1207.1.8 Fire Remediation. Where a fire or other event has damaged the ESS and ignition or re-ignition is possible, the system owner, agent or lessee shall
take the following actions, at their expense, to mitigate the hazard or remove damaged equipment from the premise to an approved location.
1207.1.8.1 Fire Mitigation Personnel. Where, in the opinion of the fire code official, it is essential for public safety that trained personnel be on-site to
respond to possible ignition or re-ignition of a damaged ESS, the system owner, agent or lessee shall within 15 minutes dispatch one or more fire
mitigation personnel to the premises, as required, at their expense. Fire mitigation personnel responsible for the preparation of the Decommissioning Plan
and in accordance with Section 1207.2.3, shall be approved. The personnel shall remain on duty continuously until the damaged energy storage equipment
is removed from the premises and located to an approved location, or earlier if the fire mitigation personnel can demonstrate to the fire code official that
the public safety hazard is mitigated. (Material based on NFPA 855 2023)
1207.1.8.3 Responsibility for Unauthorized Discharge. An incident that requires fire remediation shall be treated as an Unauthorized Discharge. The
person, firm or corporation responsible for an unauthorized discharge shall institute and complete all actions necessary to remedy the effects of such
unauthorized discharge, whether sudden or gradual, at no cost to the jurisdiction, in accordance with Section 5003.3.1.5.
1207.1 General. The provisions in this section are applicable to stationary and mobile energy storage systems (ESS). Battery-electric vehicles using
technology identified in Table 1207.1.3 and marked with a label complying with 49 CFR 567.4 that certifies compliance with the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standards are subject to the Fire Remediation provisions in Section 1207.1.8, including responsibility for an Unauthorized Discharge.
1207.4.7 Toxic and highly toxic gases. ESS that have the potential to release toxic and highly toxic gas during charging, discharging and normal use
conditions are prohibited.
1207.5.3. Elevation. Electrochemical ESS shall not be located in the following areas:
1. Where the floor is located more than 20 feet above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access.
2. Where the floor is located below the lowest level of exit discharge.
Exceptions:
1. Lead-acid and nickel-cadmium battery systems less than 50 VAC and 60 VDC. 2.5 remain unchanged.
1207.5.4 Fire detection. An approved automatic smoke detection system or radiant energy sensing fire detection system complying with Section 907.2
shall be installed in rooms, indoor areas and walk-in units containing electrochemical ESS. An approved radiant energy sensing fire detection system shall
be installed to protect open parking garage and rooftop installations. Alarm signals from detection systems shall be transmitted to a central station,
proprietary or remote station service in accordance with NFPA 72, or where approved to a constantly attended location.
Exception: Lead-acid battery ESS with an electrolyte volume of 50 US gallons or less.
TABLE 1207.6 - ELECTROCHEMICAL ESS TECHNOLOGY SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
COMPLIANCE REQUIREDb BATTERY TECHNOLOGY OTHER ESS AND CAPACITOR
BATTERY ESSb
Feature Section Lead-Acid Ni-CD & NiMH Lithium - Ion Flow TECHNOLOGIESb
Exhaust 1207.6.1 Yes Yes No Yes Yes Yes
ventilation
Explosion 1207.6.3 No Yes a Yes No Yes Yes
control
Safety caps 1207.6.4 Yes Yes No No Yes Yes
about:blank 592/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
Spill control & 1207.6.2 Yes c Yes c No Yes Yes Yes
neutralization
Thermal 1207.6.5 Yes d Yes Yes e No Yes e Yes
runaway
Thermal 1207.6.7 No No Yes No No No
runaway
detection
system
b. Applicable to vented-type (i.e., flooded) nickel-cadmium and lead-acid batteries.
c. Not required for vented-type (i.e., flooded) lead-acid batteries.
d. Thermal runaway protection is permitted to be part of a battery management system that has been evaluated with battery as part of the
evaluation to UL 1973.
1207.6.3 Explosion Control. Where required by Table 1207.6 or elsewhere in this code, explosion control complying with Section 911 shall be provided for
rooms, areas, ESS cabinets or ESS walk-in units containing electrochemical ESS technologies.
Exceptions:
1. Provision unchanged.
2. Provision unchanged.
3. ESS that eject shrapnel or enclosure pieces during large-scale fire testing complying with Section 12071.5 are prohibited.
4—6. Provisions unchanged.
1207.6.2.4 Special provisions for Lead-Acid ESS. The requirements of Section 1207.6.2 shall apply only when the aggregate capacity of multiple vessels
exceeds 50 gallons or lead-acid and nickel-cadmium battery systems operating at less than 50 VAC and 60 VDC.
1207.6.5 Thermal Runaway Detection System.
1207.6.5.1 When required. A thermal runaway detection system shall be provided for lithium-ion battery storage systems with an energy capacity greater
than 20 kWh.
Exception: Group R-3 & R-4 occupancies.
1207.6.5.1 Approvals. Devices designed to detect the thermal runaway of a lithium-ion cell containing a flammable or combustible liquid shall be listed in
accordance with UL 2075, Gas and Vapor Detectors and Sensors.
1207.6.5.2 Performance. The thermal runaway detector shall activate upon detection of gas vapors produced by flammable or combustible liquid in a
lithium-ion cell at the start of a thermal runaway event. Upon detection of a thermal runaway event the detection system shall shutdown the ESS rack
releasing flammable or combustible gas vapors and transmit a supervisory fire alarm signal. Detection of a thermal runaway event shall activate the
mechanical ventilation when it is provided as method of explosion control.
Thermal runaway detectors shall operate independently of the ESS Energy Storage Management System.
1207.6.5.3 Annunciation. The thermal runaway detector shall be capable of identifying the ESS rack where thermal runaway occurred.
1207.9.1 Rooftop Installations. For the purpose of Table 1207.9, rooftop ESS are prohibited on the roof of buildings 30 feet or more above the lowest level
of fire department vehicle access.
CHAPTER 23 MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITIES, REPAIR GARAGES, AND AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARDS
2301.1 Scope. Automotive motor fuel-dispensing facilities, marine motor fuel-dispensing facilities, fleet vehicle motor fuel-dispensing facilities, automobile
wrecking yards, and repair garages shall be in accordance with this chapter and the Building Code, the Plumbing Code, and the Mechanical Code. Such
operations shall include both operations that are accessible to the public and private operations.
2304.1 Supervision of dispensing. The dispensing of fuel at motor fuel-dispensing facilities shall be conducted by a qualified attendant who is a Texas
Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) certified UST Operator or shall be under the supervision of a qualified attendant who is a TCEQ certified UST
Operator at all times or shall be in accordance with Section 2304.3.
about:blank 593/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
2304.2 Attended self-service motor fuel-dispensing facilities. Attended self-service motor fuel-dispensing facilities shall comply with Sections 2304.2.1
through 2304.2.5. Attended self-service motor fuel-dispensing facilities shall have at least one TCEQ certified UST Operator on duty while the facility is open
for business. The attendant's primary function shall be to supervise, observe and control the dispensing of fuel. The attendant shall prevent the dispensing
of fuel into containers that do not comply with Section 2304.4.1, control sources of ignition, give immediate attention to accidental spills or releases, and be
prepared to use fire extinguishers.
2305.1.3 Tank fill connections. Delivery of flammable liquids to tanks shall be made by means of approved liquid- and vapor-tight connections between
the delivery hose and tank fill pipe. Where tanks are equipped with any type of vapor recovery system, all connections required to be made for the safe and
proper functioning of the particular vapor recovery process shall be made. Such connections shall be made liquid and vapor tight and remain connected
throughout the unloading process. Vapors shall not be discharged at grade level during delivery.
2305.2.1 Inspections. Flammable and combustible liquid fuel dispensing and containment equipment shall be inspected at least once every sixty days in
accordance with the regulations of the TCEQ in order to verify that it is in proper working order and not subject to leakage.
2305.3 Spill control. Provisions shall be made to prevent liquids spilled during dispensing operations from flowing into buildings or off of the property on
which the tank is located. Acceptable methods include, but shall not be limited to, grading driveways, raising doorsills, or other approved means.
2306.7.6.2 Testing. The automatic closing function of automatic closing fuel delivery hose nozzles that dispense Class I, II, and III liquids shall be tested on
an annual basis.
SECTION 2312 AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARDS
2312.1 Scope. Automobile wrecking yards shall comply with this section and the Building Code. Rubbish handling operations are addressed in Chapter 3
(General Requirements).
2312.2 Fire apparatus access roads. Fire apparatus access roads shall be constructed and maintained throughout the site in accordance with Section 503.
2312.3 Welding and cutting. Welding and cutting operations shall be in accordance with Chapter 35 (Welding and Other Hot Work).
2312.4 Housekeeping. Combustible rubbish accumulated on the site shall be collected and stored in approved containers, rooms or vaults of
noncombustible materials. Combustible vegetation, cut or uncut, shall be removed when determined by the fire code official to be a fire hazard.
2312.5 Fire protection. Offices, storage buildings and vehicles used for site operations shall each be provided with at least one portable fire extinguisher
with a rating of not less than 4-A:40-B:C. When required by the fire code official, additional portable fire extinguishers shall be provided in specific use
areas in accordance with NFPA 10.
2312.6 Tires. Tires shall be stored on racks in an approved manner or shall be piled in accordance with Chapter 34 (Tire Rebuilding and Tire Storage).
2312.7 Burning operations. The burning of salvage vehicles and salvage or waste materials shall be in accordance with Chapter 3 (General Requirements)
and regulations adopted by the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality.
2312.8 Motor Vehicle fluids and hazardous materials.
2312.8.1 General. The storage, use and handling of motor vehicle fluids and hazardous materials, such as those used to operate air bags and electrical
systems, shall be in accordance with Section 2312 (Automobile Wrecking Yards), Section 2311 (Repair Garages), Chapter 50 (Hazardous Materials - General
Provisions), and Chapter 57 (Flammable and Combustible Liquids).
2312.8.2 Motor Vehicle Fluids. Motor vehicle fluids shall be drained from salvage vehicles when such fluids are leaking. Storage and handling of motor
vehicle fluids shall be done in an approved manner. Flammable and combustible liquids shall be stored and handled in accordance with Section 2311
(Repair Garages), Chapter 50 (Hazardous Materials - General Provisions), and Chapter 57 (Flammable and Combustible Liquids).
2312.8.3 Mitigation for Vehicle Fluid Leaks. Supplies or equipment capable of mitigating leaks from fuel tanks, crankcases, brake systems and
transmissions shall be kept available on site. Single-use plugging, diking and absorbent materials shall be disposed of as hazardous waste and removed
from the site in a manner approved by federal, state or local requirements.
2312.8.4 Air Bag Systems. Removed air bag systems shall be handled and stored in accordance with Chapter 50 (Hazardous Materials - General Provisions).
2312.8.5 Lead-acid Batteries. Lead-acid batteries shall be removed from salvage vehicles when such batteries are leaking. Lead-acid batteries that have
been removed from vehicles shall be stored in an approved manner.
2312.8.6 Container Destruction. Destruction of vehicle containers containing liquids or gases defined as flammable or combustible by this code is
prohibited unless the containers are properly drained and the by-product stored or disposed of in accordance with Chapter 50 (Hazardous Materials -
General Provisions), are filled with an inert material or purged, and at the time of destruction, have a vapor content less than 25 percent of the by-
product's lower explosive limit or an oxygen content of less than 10 percent.
about:blank 594/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
2403.5 Mixing and Blending Area. Mixing, blending, and similar operations involving less than 10 gallons of Class I or Class II liquids, outside of a room
approved for inside use, dispensing and mixing in accordance with 5705.3.7, must be performed in an area meeting the following requirements:
1. All electrical service within 10 feet of the mixing operations must meet the Class I, Division II requirements of the Electrical Code.
2. Ventilation for the area must be adequate to maintain flammable vapors under 25 percent of the lower explosive limit of the most volatile material in
use. A line of site partition of one-hour construction must separate the mixing and blending operations from other spray finishing operations and
flammable liquids storage.
2701.4 Existing buildings and existing fabrication areas. Existing buildings and existing fabrication areas shall comply with this chapter.
Exceptions:
1. Transportation and handling of HPM in corridors and enclosures for stairways and ramps shall be allowed where in compliance with Section 2705.3.2
and the Building Code.
2. The aggregate quantity of flammable, pyrophoric, toxic and highly toxic gases in a single fabrication area allowed in Table 2704.2.2.1 Footnote d. shall
be limited to 9000 cubic feet at NTP.
3103.4 Use periods. Temporary tents, air supported, air-inflated or tensioned membrane structures of any size that are independent of and separated by
at least 20 feet (6096 mm) from any building as specified in Section 2403.8.2 shall not be erected for a period of more than 180 days within a 12-month
period on a single premises. Temporary tents, air supported, air-inflated or tensioned membrane structures of any size that are in any way attached to or
within 20 feet (6096 mm) of a building shall not be issued a permit for a continuous period of more than 30 days or for a total of more than 90 days within
a 12-month period on a single premises. Tents, air supported, air-inflated or tensioned membrane structures used for periods exceeding these limits shall
be considered buildings or structures regulated by the Building Code and shall be required to be erected under a building permit and obtain a certificate of
occupancy.
3103.7.2 Location. Tents or membrane structures shall not be located within 20 feet (6096 mm) of lot lines, buildings, other tents or membrane structures,
parked vehicles or internal combustion engines. For the purpose of determining required distances, support ropes and guy wires shall be considered as
part of the temporary membrane structure, or tent.
Exceptions:
1. Separation distance between membrane structures and tents not used for cooking, is not required when the aggregate floor area does not exceed
15,000 square feet (1394 m 2 ).
2. Membrane structures or tents need not be separated from buildings when all of the following conditions are met:
2.1. The aggregate floor area of the membrane structure or tent shall not exceed 10,000 square feet (929 m 2 ).
2.2. The aggregate floor area and total height of the building and membrane structure or tent shall not exceed the allowable floor area or the allowable
height, in stories or feet, including increases as indicated in the Building Code.
2.3. Required means of egress are provided for both the building and the membrane structure or tent including travel distances.
2.4. Fire apparatus access roads are provided in accordance with Section 503.
2.5. Occupant load is, for the purposes of complying with Chapters 9 and 10 of the Building Code and Fire Code, based on the aggregate of the building
floor area and the area under the membrane structure or tent.
4104.2 Residential Barbecue Pits and Incinerators. No person may construct, erect, install, maintain or use any incinerator or barbecue pit or burn any
combustible material to constitute a fire hazard by the use or burning or to endanger the life or property of any person. Residential barbecue pits, hibachis
or other cooking appliances utilizing charcoal, wood or gas as a fuel may not be stored or used on any balconies of residential occupancies, on other
combustible balconies, within five feet measured horizontally from any portion of a combustible building, or within fifteen feet measured along the
shortest distance if the pit is located below any portion of a combustible building.
Exception: Detached one- and two-family dwellings.
5001.1.2 Purpose. This chapter regulates the handling and storage of hazardous materials in aboveground storage facilities. Underground storage facilities
are regulated by City Code Chapter 6-2 (Hazardous Materials).
5001.2 Material classification. Hazardous materials are those chemicals or substances defined as such in this code. Definitions of hazardous materials
shall apply to all hazardous materials, including those materials regulated elsewhere in this code. Appendix E contains descriptions and examples of
materials included in hazard categories.
5001.2.3 Radioactive Materials. Storage of radioactive materials shall be in accordance with the provisions set forth by the Texas Department of State
Health Services, Radiation Control Program.
5001.5 Permits. No person, firm, or corporation may store, dispense, use, or handle hazardous materials in more than the quantities named in Section
105.6 unless a valid permit has been issued under this chapter.
about:blank 595/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
When required by the fire code official, permit holders shall apply for approval to permanently close a storage, use or handling facility. Such application
shall be submitted at least 30 days prior to the termination of the storage, use or handling of hazardous materials. The fire code official is authorized to
require that the application be accompanied by an approved facility closure plan in accordance with Section 5001.6.3.
5001.5.2 Hazardous Materials Inventory Statement (HMIS). Where required by the fire code official, an application for a permit shall include an HMIS,
such as Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA) Title III, Tier II Report or other approved statement. The HMIS shall include the
following information:
1. manufacturer's name;
2. chemical names, product or trade names, hazardous ingredients;
3. United Nations (UN), North America (NA) and the Chemical Abstract Service (CAS) identification number (as applicable and as available);
4. maximum quantities stored or used on-site at one time, including amounts in use-closed systems and amounts in use-open systems;
5. location where stored or used;
6. container sizes; and
7. hazard classifications including the NFPA 704 rating of each chemical.
5001.7 Permit Procedure. A hazardous materials permit shall be granted after:
1. The applicant has filed with the fire department a completed hazardous materials permit application, in accordance with Section 5001.5 and this
section; and
2. The applicant has paid the application fee set by separate ordinance.
5001.7.1 Application. A Hazardous Materials Permit Application shall include the following:
1. general information including the name, address, and telephone number of the facility, the number of employees, hours of operation, and a name
and emergency telephone number of the primary emergency contact person;
2. a storage map, which shall identify the location of hazardous materials storage areas, and access to the materials; and
3. a Hazardous Materials Inventory Statement (HMIS) in accordance with Section 5001.5.2.
5001.7.1.1 The facility may be omitted from applications when, in the opinion of the fire code official, the plan will not provide additional information
necessary to prevent an actual or potential hazard to the public health, safety, or welfare (including the health, safety, or welfare of firefighters) or to
facilitate the fire department's response in the event of an emergency involving hazardous materials at the facility.
5001.7.2 Permit Required. No person, firm, or corporation may install, repair, abandon, remove, place temporarily out of service, close, or substantially
modify a storage facility or other area required to be permitted under this chapter without a permit. Section 5001.6.3 also applies.
Exceptions:
1. Routine maintenance.
2. For emergency repair work performed on an emergency basis, application for permit shall be made within two working days of commencement of
work.
3. Businesses with an annual permit through the Development Services Department may perform work in accordance with the provisions of the Building
Code and rules governing the facilities.
Permit holders shall apply for approval to close bulk storage, use, or handling facility at least 30 days before the termination of the storage, use, or
handling of hazardous materials. The applicant shall include any change or alteration of the facility closure plan filed under Section 5001.6.3 of this
chapter. This 30 day period may be waived by the fire code official.
5001.7.3 Permit Effective Date. The fire department shall grant or deny a permit application no later than 60 days after receipt of the completed
application. The fire department will provide written confirmation to the applicant demonstrating receipt of the application within 30 days of receipt of the
application. If the department fails to grant or deny the permit within 60 days, the permit is considered to be issued and in effect. The fire department may
inspect the business for satisfactory storage and use of hazardous materials. The operation of a facility under a permit issued before inspection constitutes
the permission of the facility owner/operator for the fire code official to enter on the facility for the purpose of conducting the required inspection. Refusal
to allow the inspection shall constitute a prima facie cause to revoke the permit under Section 105.5.22.
5001.7.4 Permit Term and Renewal. A permit is granted for a term of three years from the date of issuance. Permits may be renewed every three years on
the anniversary of permit issuance. At the discretion of the firecode official, a permit may be issued for a shorter period. The fee assessed for the permits
shall be prorated for the appropriate time. If a permit is issued for a shorter period at the request of the applicant, an additional handling fee may be
assessed, not to exceed the actual cost of clerical processing time.
5001.7.5 Annexation Procedure. A facility brought under regulation by this chapter through annexation shall file a permit application with the fire
department no later than 90 days after the effective date of annexation. The fire department shall grant or deny a permit application submitted under this
subsection no later than six months after receipt of the completed application. If the fire department fails to grant or deny the permit within the period, the
about:blank 596/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
permit is considered to be issued and in effect.
5001.7.6 Permit Denial. If the fire department denies a permit, the fire department shall notify the applicant in writing of the action. The notification must
include a statement of the fire department's reasons for the action.
5001.7.7 Transfer. A permit may be transferred to a new owner or operator of a business at the same location if the new owner or operator by letter to the
fire department accepts responsibility for all obligations under this chapter at the time of the transfer of the business. All permit transfers are subject to
the approval of the fire code official.
5001.7.8 Fees. No permit may be granted, renewed or continued in effect until the fee set by separate ordinance has been paid. The fee shall be paid at the
time an application is filed.
5001.7.9 Amendment. Any information required to be submitted by this chapter shall be amended or supplemented no later than 30 days after the
occurrence of an event that would render the information inaccurate. Unless the change(s) would affect the ability of emergency response personnel to
safely respond to an emergency, an amendment or supplement is not required to record:
1. minor changes in the quantities of hazardous materials stored;
2. the temporary storage of hazardous materials at the facility; or
3. a temporary change of hazardous materials storage location.
5002.1 Supplemental Definitions. The definitions in the 2024 International Fire Code are adopted as published except that supplemental definitions are
added or amended. The following supplemental definitions are defined in Section 202.1.1. For the purposes of this chapter and as used elsewhere in this
code, these definitions shall have the meanings shown in Section 202.1.1.
PERMANENT STORAGE.
PERMIT.
PROCESS VESSEL.
TABLE 5003.1.1(5)
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EXEMPTIONS
MATERIAL OCCUPANCY OR EXEMPTION
CLASSIFICATION APPLICATION
Combustible fiber Baled Cotton Densely packed baled cotton shall not be classified as combustible fiber,
provided the bales comply with the packing requirements of ISO 8115.
Corrosive Personal and household The quantity of personal and household products that are classified as
products corrosive materials is not limited in retail displays, provided that the
products are in the original packaging.
Retail and wholesale sales The quantity of medicines, foodstuffs or consumer products and cosmetics
occupancies containing not more that 50 percent by volume of water-miscible liquids,
with the remainer of the solutions not being flammable, is not limited.
To qualify for this allowance, such materials shall be packaged in individual
containers not exceeding 1.3 gallons.
Explosives Group M and R-3 Storage of black powder, smokeless propellant and small arms primers is
not limited.
about:blank 597/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
Flammable and combustible Aerosols Buildings and structures occupied for the storage of aerosol products,
liquids and gases aerosol cooking spray products, or plastic aerosol 3 products shall be
classified as Group S-1.
Alcoholic beverages The quantity of alcoholic beverages in liquor stores and distributors without
bulk storage is not limited.
The quantity of alcoholic beverages in brewing is not limited.
The storage quantity of beer, distilled spirits and wines in barrels and asks is
not limited.
Alcoholic beverages in retail and wholesale occupancies is not limited. To
qualify for this allowance, beverages must be packaged in individual
containers not exceeding 1.3 gallons.
Cleaning establishments with The quantity of combustible liquid solvents used in closed systems and
combustible liquid solvents having a flash point at or above 140 F is not limited. To qualify for this
allowance, equipment shall be listed by an approved testing agency and the
occupancy shall be separated from all other areas of the building by 1-hour
fire barriers or 1-hour horizontal assemblies, or both, constructed in
accordance with the International Building Code.
The quantity of combustible liquid solvents having a flash point at or above
200 F is not limited.
Closed piping systems The quantity of flammable and combustible liquids and gases utilized for the
operation of machinery or equipment is not limited.
Flammable finishing Building and structured occupied for the application of flammable finishes
operations using flammable shall comply with Section 416.
and combustible liquids
Fuel The quantity of liquid or gaseous fuel in fuel tanks of vehicles or motorized
equipment is not limited.
The quantity of gaseous fuels in piping systems and fixed appliance
regulated by the International Fuel Gas Code is not limited.
The quantity of liquid fuels in piping systems and fixed appliances regulated
by the International Mechanical Code is not limited.
Hand Sanitizer The quantity of alcohol-based hand rubs (ABHR) classified as Class I or II
liquids in dispensers installed in accordance with Sections 5705.5 and
5705.5.1 is not limited. The location of the ABHR shall be provided in the
construction documents.
Retail and wholesale The quantity of medicines, foodstuffs or consumer products, and cosmetics
occupancies with flammable containing not more than 50 percent by volume of water-miscible liquids,
and combustible liquids with the remainder of the solutions not being flammable, is not limited.
To qualify for this allowance, such materials shall be packaged in individual
containers not exceeding 1.3 gallons.
about:blank 598/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
Highly toxic and toxic materials Retail and wholesale The quantity of medicines, foodstuffs or consumer products, and cosmetics
occupancies containing not more than 50 percent by volume of water-miscible liquids,
with the remainder of the solutions not being flammable, is not limited.
To qualify for this allowance, such materials shall be packaged in individual
containers not exceeding 1.3 gallons.
Any Energy Storage The quantity of hazardous materials in stationary storage battery systems is
not limited.
The quantity of hazardous materials in stationary fuel cell power systems is
not limited.
The quantity of hazardous materials in capacity energy storage systems is
not limited.
Refrigeration systems The quantity of refrigerants in refrigeration systems is not limited.
For SI: 1 gallon = 3/785 L, C = (F32-)/1.8.
a. Exempted materials and conditions listed in this table are required to comply with provisions of this code that are not based on exceeding
the maximum allowable quantities in Section 5003.
5003.2.2.3 Emergency isolation. Where gases or liquids having a hazard ranking of Health Class 3 or 4, Flammability Class 4 or Instability Class 3 or 4 in
accordance with NFPA 704 are carried in pressurized piping above 15 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) (103 kPa), an approved means of leak detection
and emergency shutoff or excess flow control shall be provided. Where the piping originates from within a hazardous material storage room or area, the
excess flow control shall be located within the storage room or area. Where the piping originates from a bulk source, the excess flow control shall be
located as close to the bulk source as practical.
Exceptions:
1. Piping for inlet connections designed to prevent backflow.
2. Piping for pressure relief devices.
5003.2.4.3 Indoor Tank Filling. Aboveground stationary tanks used for the indoor storage of hazardous materials shall be filled using one of the liquid
transfer methods in Section 5005.1.10. The transfer of hazardous materials to indoor stationary tanks from tank vehicles shall be done from a liquid tight
remote fill connection located outdoors. Fill connections shall be not more than five feet above the finished ground level, in an approved location in close
proximity to the parked delivery vehicle. Connections shall be five feet away from building openings. Such connections shall be closed and liquid tight when
not in use and shall be properly identified.
5003.3.1.4 Responsibility for cleanup. The person, firm or corporation responsible for an unauthorized discharge shall institute and complete all actions
necessary to remedy the effects of such unauthorized discharge, whether sudden or gradual, at no cost to the jurisdiction. When deemed necessary by the
fire code official, cleanup may be initiated by the fire department or by an authorized individual or firm. Costs associated with such cleanup shall be borne
by the owner, operator or other person responsible for the unauthorized discharge. Such costs shall include but shall not be limited to:
1. chemical absorbent or adsorbent materials;
2. chemical neutralizers;
3. chemical resistant suits, gloves, or boots;
4. chemical containment drums;
5. vapor suppression foams;
6. containment tools;
7. chemical detection devices; and
8. personnel costs for incident related overtime activities.
5003.9.8 Separation of incompatible materials. Incompatible materials in storage and storage of materials that are incompatible with materials in use
shall be separated when the stored materials are in containers having a capacity of more than five pounds (2 kg) or 0.5 gallon (2 L). Separation shall be
accomplished by:
about:blank 599/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
1. Segregating incompatible materials in storage by a distance of not less than 20 feet (6096 mm).
Exception: Segregation of less than exempt amounts of corrosive and oxidizing materials, when such materials are necessary to maintain
swimming pools for Group R occupancies, may be accomplished by a minimum separation of five feet (1524 mm).
2. Isolating incompatible materials in storage by a noncombustible partition extending not less than 18 inches (457 mm) above and to the sides of the
stored material.
3. Storing liquid and solid materials in hazardous material storage cabinets.
4. Storing compressed gases in gas cabinets or exhausted enclosures in accordance with Sections 5003.8.5 and 5003.8.6. Materials that are incompatible
shall not be stored within the same cabinet or exhausted enclosure.
5003.13.2 Maximum allowable quantity per rooftop or canopy. The storage, use and handling of hazardous materials on top of a roof or canopy shall not
exceed the maximum allowable quantity set forth in Tables 5003.1.1(1) and 5003.1.1(2). LP-gas storage and use shall be in accordance with Chapter 61.
Exceptions:
1. Pollution control, exhaust treatment and dust collection equipment when approved.
2. Hydrogen storage at motor fuel-dispensing facilities in accordance with Chapter 23.
3. Hazardous materials in closed piping systems complying with this code.
4. Hazardous materials on top of a normally unoccupied exterior equipment platforms necessary for the operation of mechanical systems or industrial
process equipment when approved.
5. Hazardous materials necessary for rooftop swimming pool or hot tub treatment systems, limited to a maximum container size of 50 gallons (189 L) or
500 lbs (227 kg) of toxic or corrosive materials, and 200 pounds (91 kg) or 20 gallons (76 L) of oxidizers.
6. Other situations where rooftop storage or use of hazardous materials is necessary for the operation of equipment serving the building and is
approved.
5004.2 Spill control and secondary containment for liquid and solid hazardous materials. Tanks, rooms, buildings or areas used for the storage of liquid
or solid hazardous materials shall be provided with spill control and secondary containment in accordance with Sections 5004.2.1 through 5004.2.3.
Exceptions:
1. Outdoor storage of containers on approved containment pallets in accordance with Section 5004.2.3.
2. Liquids that are a gas at NTP.
5004.2.1 Spill control for hazardous material liquids. Tanks, rooms, buildings or areas used for the storage of hazardous material liquids in excess of the
lesser of the maximum allowable quantities established by Tables 5003.1.1(1) and 5003.1.1(2) or limits specifically set in Chapters 51 through 67 shall be
provided with spill control to prevent the flow of liquids to adjoining areas. Floors in indoor locations and similar surfaces in outdoor locations shall be
constructed to contain a spill from the largest single vessel by one of the following methods:
1. Liquid-tight sloped or recessed floors in indoor locations or similar areas in outdoor locations.
2. Liquid-tight floors in indoor locations or similar areas in outdoor locations provided with liquid-tight raised or recessed sills or dikes.
3. Sumps and collection systems.
4. Other approved engineered systems.
Except for surfacing, the floors, sills, dikes, sumps and collection systems shall be constructed of noncombustible material, and the liquid-tight seal shall be
compatible with the material stored. When liquid-tight sills or dikes are provided, they are not required at perimeter openings having an open-grate trench
across the opening that connects to an approved collection system.
5004.2.2 Secondary containment for hazardous material liquids and solids. Where required by Table 5004.2.2 tanks, buildings, rooms or areas used for
the storage of hazardous materials liquids or solids shall be provided with secondary containment in accordance with this section when the quantity of
materials exceeds the maximum allowable quantity as established by Tables 5003.1.1(1) and 5003.1.1(2) or limits specifically set in Chapters 51 through 67.
5004.2.2.1 Containment and drainage methods. The tank, building, room or area shall contain or drain the hazardous materials and fire protection water
through the use of one of the following methods:
1. Liquid-tight sloped or recessed floors in indoor locations or similar areas in outdoor locations.
2. Liquid-tight floors in indoor locations or similar areas in outdoor locations provided with liquid-tight raised or recessed sills or dikes.
3. Sumps and collection systems.
4. Drainage systems leading to an approved location.
5. Other approved engineered systems.
5004.2.2.2 Incompatible materials. Incompatible materials used in open systems shall be separated from each other in the secondary containment
system. Incompatible materials are allowed to be combined when they have been rendered acceptable by an approved means for discharge into the public
sewer.
about:blank 600/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
5004.2.2.5 Monitoring. An approved monitoring method shall be provided to detect hazardous materials in the secondary containment system. The
monitoring method is allowed to be visual inspection of the primary or secondary containment, or other approved means. Where secondary containment
is subject to the intrusion of water, a monitoring method for detecting water shall be provided. Where monitoring devices are provided, they shall be
connected to an approved visual or audible alarm.
Leak-detecting devices must be tested annually by the owner or occupant of the property on which the devices are located. Test results shall be maintained
on the premises and be available to the fire-code official on request.
5004.2.2.6 Drainage system design. Drainage systems shall be in accordance with the Plumbing Code and all of the following:
1. The slope of floors to drains in indoor locations, or similar areas in outdoor locations shall not be less than one percent.
2. Drains from indoor storage areas shall be sized to carry the volume of the fire protection water as determined by the design density discharged from
the automatic fire-extinguishing system over the minimum required system design area or area of the room or area in which the storage is located,
whichever is smaller.
3. Drains from outdoor storage areas shall be sized to carry the volume of the fire flow and the volume of a 24-hour rainfall as determined by a 25-year
storm.
4. Materials of construction for drainage systems shall be compatible with the materials stored.
5. Incompatible materials used in open systems shall be separated from each other in the drainage system. Incompatible materials are allowed to be
combined when they have been rendered acceptable by an approved means for discharge into the public sewer.
6. Drains, including overflow from secondary containment, shall terminate in an approved location away from buildings, valves, means of egress, fire
access roadways, adjoining property storm drains, waterways and critical environmental features (CEF's). Tanks shall be set back at 150 feet (45,720
mm) from any recognized waterway or CEF.
5005.1.8.1 Gas cabinets, exhausted enclosures, and exhaust ducts with a cross sectional dimension of 10 inches or greater shall be internally sprinklered.
5306.2 Interior supply location. Medical gases shall be stored in areas dedicated to the storage of such gases without other storage or uses. Where
containers of medical gases in quantities greater than 300 ft 3 (8.5 m 3 ) and less than 1500 ft 3 (42.5 m 3 ) are located inside buildings, they shall be in a one-
hour exterior room, a one-hour interior room or a gas cabinet in accordance with Section 5306.2.1, 5306.2.2, or 5306.2.3, respectively. Where containers of
medical gases in excess of 1500 ft 3 (42.5 m 3 ) and less than 3,000 ft 3 (85 m 3 ) are located inside a building, they shall be protected by a local application
fire sprinkler system in addition to the room or cabinet enclosure required by 5306.2.1, 5306.2.2 or 5306.2.3. Rooms or areas where medical gases are
stored or used in quantities exceeding 3000 ft 3 (85 m 3 ) per control area shall be in accordance with the Building Code for high-hazard Group H
occupancies.
5306.2.1 One-hour exterior rooms. A one-hour exterior room shall be a room or enclosure separated from the remainder of the building by fire barriers
constructed in accordance with Section 707 of the Building Code or horizontal assemblies constructed in accordance with Section 711 of the Building Code,
or both, with a fire-resistance rating of not less than one hour. Openings between the room or enclosure and interior spaces shall be self-closing smoke-
and draft-control assemblies having a fire protection rating of not less than one hour. Rooms shall have at least one exterior wall that is provided with at
least two vents. Each vent shall not be less than 72 square inches (0.046 m 2 ) in area. One vent shall be within 12 inches (304.8 mm) of the floor and one
shall be within 12 inches (304.8 mm) of the ceiling. Rooms containing medical gases in excess of 1,500 ft 3 (42.5 m 3 ) and less than 3,000 ft 3 (85 m 3 ) shall
be provided with at least one local application automatic sprinkler to provide container cooling in case of fire.
5306.2.2 One-hour interior room. When an exterior wall cannot be provided for the room, the room shall be exhausted through a duct to the exterior.
Supply and exhaust ducts shall be enclosed in a one-hour-rated shaft enclosure from the room to the exterior. Approved mechanical ventilation shall
comply with the Mechanical Code and be provided at a minimum rate of one cubic foot per minute per square foot [0.00508 m 3 /(s × m 2 )] of the area of
the room. Rooms containing medical gases in excess of 1500 ft 3 (42.5 m 3 ) and less than 3,000 ft 3 (85 m 3 ) shall be provided with at least one local
application automatic sprinkler to provide container cooling in case of fire.
5306.2.3 Gas cabinets. Gas cabinets shall be constructed in accordance with Section 5003.8.6 and the following:
1. The average velocity of ventilation at the face of access ports or windows shall not be less than 200 feet per minute (61 m/s) with a minimum of 150
feet per minute (46 m/s) at any point of the access port or window.
2. Connected to a ducted exhaust system with exhaust ducts enclosed in a one-hour shaft enclosure to the exterior.
3. Internally sprinklered when the quantity of medical gases exceeds 1500 ft 3 (42.5 m 3 ).
5306.3 Exterior supply locations. Oxidizer medical gas systems located on the exterior of a building shall be located in accordance with Section 6304.2.1.
5404.2 Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage of corrosive materials shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003, 5004 and this chapter.
Exception: Up to 10 gallons of corrosive liquids may be stored outside of buildings without spill control, drainage, and secondary containment provided:
1. The volume of individual containers is less than five gallons;
2. The containers are constructed of metal or plastic; and
about:blank 601/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
3. The containers are located a minimum of 10 feet from property lines, exit openings, and storm water drains.
5404.2.1 Above-ground outside storage tanks. Above-ground outside storage tanks of corrosive liquids shall be provided with secondary containment in
accordance with Section 5004.2.2.
5504.3.1.1 Stationary Containers. Stationary containers shall be separated from exposure hazards in accordance with the provisions applicable to the type
of fluid contained and the minimum separation distance indicated in Table 5504.3.1.1. Storage of flammable cryogenic fluids, including liquefied natural
gas (LNG), in aggregate quantities exceeding 15,000 gallon (56,781 L) water capacity is prohibited outside of a light industry (LI) zoning district except as
provided in this section.
The placement of aboveground or below ground containers of flammable cryogenic fluids, including liquefied natural gas (LNG), in aggregate quantities
exceeding 15,000 gallon water (56,781 L) capacity may be considered for other locations on a case-by-case basis provided zoning issues, secondary
containment, and fire exposures are satisfactorily addressed including the identification of hazard ratings in accordance with Appendix F. Where the
nearest off-site exposure(s) is (are) less than 500 feet (152.4 m) from the container(s) the placement may be permitted outside of a light industry (LI) zoning
district by the fire code official only after notification of owners/occupants of properties within 500 feet (152.4 m), requesting their input in order to assess
the potential effect on the community. Notice to adjacent property owners shall be accomplished in accordance with the established procedures outlined
in the Title 25(Land Development) for notice of applications and administrative actions or decisions.
5601.2.4 Financial responsibility. Before a permit is issued, the applicant shall submit proof of a public liability insurance policy, in the principal sum of
$5,000,000 for personal injuries and $5,000,000 for property damage. The policy shall be current and shall name the City as an additional insured for the
purpose of the payment of all damages to persons or property that arise from, or are caused by, the conduct of any act authorized by the permit upon
which any judicial judgment results. The fire code official is authorized to specify a greater or lesser amount when, in his or her opinion, conditions at the
location of use indicate a greater or lesser amount is required. Government entities shall be exempt from this bond requirement.
Exception: The insurance requirements for fireworks and pyrotechnics are as follows:
• Aerial displays must carry a Certificate of Insurance for a minimum of $1,000,000 (bodily injury) and $500,000 (property damage).
• Non-aerial displays must carry a Certificate of Insurance for a minimum of $500,000 (bodily injury) and $300,000 (property damage). The City of Austin
must be named as co-insured on the policy.
• The fire code official is authorized to specify a greater or lesser amount when, in his or her opinion, conditions at the location of use indicate a greater
or lesser amount is required.
5601.2.4.1 Blasting. Before approval to do blasting is issued, the applicant for approval shall submit a certificate of insurance in such form, amount and
coverage as determined by the legal department of the jurisdiction to be adequate in each case to indemnify the jurisdiction against any and all damages
arising from permitted blasting.
5601.2.4.2 Fireworks display.
The permit holder shall furnish a certificate of insurance in an amount deemed adequate by the fire code official for the payment of all potential damages
to a person or persons or to property by reason of the permitted display, and arising from any acts of the permit holder, the agent, employees or
subcontractors.
5601.2.5 Permit application, review and fees. Blasting permit application, review and fees shall be in accordance with Sections 5601.2.5.1, 56012.5.2 and
5601.2.5.3.
5601.2.5.1 Permit application. To obtain a permit, the blaster must file with the fire code official an application at least 120 days in advance of the
proposed work date. Each application must describe the proposed work, the location of the work, and the other pertinent information as may be required.
5601.2.5.2 Permit review. The fire code official may require written comments on each permit application from the various affected City departments.
When in the opinion of the fire code official the departments have a valid objection to the issuance of a permit, no permit may be approved until the
objection has been resolved to the satisfaction of the fire code official.
5601.2.5.3 Permit Fees. Permits authorized by the provisions of Section 5601.2.5 may be issued only on payment of the appropriate fee, which is set by
separate ordinance. City departments are not required to pay permit fees when engaged in the work described in this section.
5601.2.6 Permit Denial. When in the opinion of the fire code official there is a substantial danger to life, health, or property in the immediate area exposed
to the blasting, fireworks display or use of pyrotechnic materials for which a permit is being requested, the request shall be denied.
5601.4 Qualifications. Persons in charge of magazines, blasting, fireworks display, or pyrotechnic special effect operations shall not be under the influence
of alcohol or drugs that impair sensory or motor skills, shall not be less than 21 years of age and shall demonstrate knowledge of all safety precautions
related to the storage, handling or use of explosives, explosive materials or fireworks. Persons actively involved in or responsible for blasting, fireworks
displays, or the production of pyrotechnic special effects or displays shall meet all applicable federal, state and local license requirements for the work or
activity being performed. Persons actively involved in blasting must also meet the following:
about:blank 602/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
1. have no felony convictions or two or more misdemeanors within two years preceding the date of application for a permit, containing intoxication as
an element of the offense; and
2. have no revoked, suspended, or terminated blaster's license, or any criminal action involving blasting activities pending in a federal, state, or
municipal court of law.
5607.4 Restricted hours. Surface-blasting operations shall only be conducted during daylight hours between sunrise and sunset. Other blasting shall be
performed during daylight hours unless otherwise approved by the fire code official. Prior written approval is required for blasting to be conducted on
Sunday, legal holidays, or between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. on other days.
5607.5 Notification. All blasting operations must be preceded by a pre-blast notification to the owners or managers of all affected premises. The range of
the pre-blast notification shall be at the discretion of the blaster and as required by the permit. Where blasting is being conducted in the vicinity of utility
lines or rights-of-way, the blaster shall notify the appropriate representatives of the Austin Utility Location and Coordination Committee and the
Transportation Public Works Department not less than 120 days in advance of blasting, specifying the location and intended time of such blasting. Verbal
notices shall be confirmed with written notice.
Exception: In an emergency situation, the time limit shall not apply where approved.
5607.11.1 Approved blasting machines must be used. All other equipment is prohibited.
5607.12.1 Only blasting trunk wire of 18 gauge minimum may be used while conducting blasting operations under permits.
5607.14 Post-blast procedures. After the blast, the following procedures shall be observed:
1. Persons shall not return to the blast area until allowed to do so by the fire code official upon a recommendation from the blaster in charge.
2. The blaster shall allow sufficient time for smoke and fumes to dissipate and for dust to settle before returning to or approaching the blast area.
3. The blaster shall inspect the entire blast site for misfires before allowing other personnel to return to the blast area.
5607.16 Particle velocity limits and air overpressures. Particle velocities and air overpressures shall be in accordance with this section and Chapter 11 of
NFPA 495. Particle velocities, frequencies, or air overpressure in excess of the prescribed limits shall require the immediate suspension of blasting and
initiation of corrective measures. The fire code official may grant or require deviations from these limits as required to adequately protect the public safety.
5607.16.1 Particle velocity. Particle velocities shall not exceed 1.7 inches per second. Monitoring of particle velocities for all blasting operations shall be
carried out as required in this section. When particle velocities exceed 0.5 inches per second, blast frequencies shall also be monitored.
56067.16.2 Air overpressures. Air overpressures shall not exceed the value specified in Chapter 11 of NFPA 495.
5607.17 Blast Monitoring. A blast monitor, such as a seismic blast recording machine, is required during all blasting operations for which a permit is issued
by the City. Particle velocity shall be recorded in three mutually perpendicular axes. The maximum particle velocity shall be the maximum of any of the
three axes. Blast monitoring shall be performed by an independent company, experienced in planning and implementing blast monitoring programs. The
blast monitoring company shall prepare monitoring plans and shall be responsible for ensuring that the monitor sensors are placed properly and that the
measuring and recording instruments function properly. The monitoring company shall prepare blast monitoring reports. All monitoring reports shall carry
the seal of an engineer licensed in the State of Texas and shall be retained on file by the permit holder. These reports shall be submitted to the fire
department.
Exception: When, in the opinion of the fire code official, the damage to structures or buildings due to blasting operations is unlikely, the requirements of
this subsection may be waived.
5607.18 Conditions of Approval. The fire code official shall set other conditions for the approval of the application that are necessary to adequately protect
public health and safety. These conditions may include, but are not limited to, reduced allowable particle velocities, reduced allowable air overpressure,
additional monitoring, increased insurance protection, hours of operation, type and amount of explosives used, evacuations or shelter-in-place for
occupants in adjacent structures, and engineered blasting plans.
5703.4 Spill Control, Drainage Control, and Secondary Containment.
5703.4.1 General. Tanks, buildings, rooms, and areas used for storage, dispensing, use, mixing, or handling of Class I, II, and III-A liquids shall be provided
with a means to control spillage and to contain or drain spillage and fire protection water as set forth in Section 5004.2.
Exception: Up to 10 gallons of Class I, II, and III liquids may be stored outside of buildings without spill control, drainage, and secondary containment,
provided:
1. The volume of individual containers is less than 5 gallons;
2. The containers are constructed of metal or plastic; and,
3. The containers are located a minimum of 10 feet from property lines, exit openings, and storm water drains.
about:blank 603/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
5703.4.2 Spill Control. When spill control is required, floors of rooms, buildings or areas containing flammable or combustible liquids must be sloped;
constructed with sumps and collection systems; recessed a minimum of four inches (101.6 mm); provided with a liquid-tight, raised sill to a minimum
height of four inches (101.6 mm) to prevent the flow of liquids to adjoining areas; or otherwise constructed to contain a spill from the largest single
container or tank. The floor and sill must be constructed of noncombustible material and must be liquid-tight. The liquid-tight seal must be compatible with
the material being stored. When raised sills are provided, they are not required at perimeter openings that are provided with an open-grate trench across
the opening that connects to an approved drainage control system.
5703.4.3 Drainage Control.
5703.4.3.1 General. When drainage control is required, rooms, buildings or areas must be provided with a drainage system to direct the flow of liquids to
an approved location or treatment system, or be provided with secondary containment for the flammable and combustible liquids and fire protection
water.
5703.4.3.2 Sizing. Drains shall be sized to carry the sprinkler system design flow rate over the sprinkler system design area. The slope of drains may not be
less than one percent. The drains must be liquid-tight. Materials used to construct drainage systems must be compatible with the stored materials.
5703.4.3.3 Incompatible Materials. Incompatible materials must be separated from each other in drainage systems.
Exception: Incompatible materials are allowed to be combined when they have been rendered acceptable for discharge by an approved means into the
public sewer.
5703.4.3.4 Neutralizers and Treatment Systems. Drainage systems for spillage and fire-protection water which are directed to a neutralizer or treatment
system shall comply with the following:
1. The system must be designed to handle the maximum worst-case spill from the single largest container plus the volume of fire protection water from
the system over the minimum design area for a water flow duration of 20 minutes; and
2. Overflow control from the neutralizer or treatment system must direct liquid leakage and fire protection water to a safe location away from buildings,
material, or fire-protection control valves, means of egress, adjoining properties or fire apparatus access roadways.
5703.4.4 Secondary Containment. When secondary containment is required:
1. Drains must be directed to a containment system or other location designed as secondary containment for flammable or combustible liquids and fire-
protection water; or
2. The room, building or area must be designed to provide secondary containment of flammable and combustible liquids and fire-protection water
through the use of recessed floors or liquid-tight, raised sills.
5703.4.4.1 Sizing of Indoor Containment. Secondary containment must be designed to retain the spill from the largest single container plus the design
flow rate of the sprinkler system for the area of the room or area in which the storage is located or the sprinkler system design area, whichever is smaller.
The containment capacity must be capable of containing the water flow from a discharge having a duration of 20 minutes.
5703.4.4.2 Sizing of Outdoor Containment. If the storage area is open to rainfall, the secondary containment shall be designed to accommodate the
volume of the largest container or tank plus a 24-hour rainfall as determined by a 25-year storm data from NOAA.
Exception: Listed tanks constructed with an integral method of secondary containment.
5703.4.4.3 Construction of Secondary Containment. The floor and walls of the secondary containment must be constructed of noncombustible material
and must be liquid-tight. The liquid-tight seal must be compatible with the material being stored. In addition to these requirements, walls must be
constructed in accordance with Section 5004.2.
5703.4.4.4 Overflow. Overflow control from the secondary containment system must direct liquid leakage and fire-protection water to a safe location away
from buildings, material or fire-protection control valves, means of egress, fire apparatus access roadways, adjoining properties, storm drains, waterways,
and critical environmental features (CEFs). Tanks shall be set back at least 150 feet from any recognized waterway or CEF.
5703.4.4.5 Monitoring and Leak Detection.
5703.4.4.5.1 Method. A monitoring method capable of detecting hazardous material leakage from the primary containment into the secondary
containment must be provided. When visual inspection of the primary containment is not practical, other approved means of monitoring are allowed.
When double walled tanks are used to provide secondary containment for Class I and II liquids, automatic leak detection devices must be provided. When
secondary containment is subject to the intrusion of water, a monitoring method for detecting the water must be provided. When monitoring devices are
provided, they must be connected to distinct visual or audible alarms.
5703.4.4.5.2 Testing. Leak-detecting devices shall be tested annually by the owner or occupant of the property on which they were located. Test results
shall be maintained on the premises and available to the fire code official on request.
5704.2.9.6.1 Locations where above-ground tanks are prohibited. Storage of Class I and II liquids in above-ground tanks outside of buildings is prohibited
outside of a major industry (MI) district.
about:blank 604/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
Exceptions:
1. The storage of up to 12,000 gallons (45,425 L) of Class I and II liquids within the limits defined as Light Industrial is allowable provided the tank is listed
and labeled "protected aboveground tank", and is installed in accordance with Section 5704.2.9.7 and its listing. The product shall be a noncorrosive,
nonreactive liquid having a specific gravity equal to or less than one.
2. The storage of up to 1,100 gallons (4,164 L) of Class I and II liquids at construction sites is allowed provided the tank is listed, labeled, and installed in
accordance with its listing.
3. The placement of aboveground storage tanks at other locations or of greater capacity may be considered on a case-by-case basis provided zoning
issues, secondary containment, and fire exposures are satisfactorily addressed. The placement of aboveground tanks of Class I and II liquids in
aggregate quantities exceeding 12,000 gallons (45,425 L) water capacity, where the nearest off-site exposure(s) is (are) less than 500 feet (152.4 m)
from the tank(s), may be permitted by the fire code official only after notification of owners/occupants of properties within 500 feet (152.4 m)
requesting their input in order to assess the potential effect on the community. Notice to adjacent property owners shall be accomplished in
accordance with the established procedures outlined in the Title 25(Land Development) for notice of applications and administrative actions or
decisions.
5704.2.10 Drainage and diking. The area surrounding a tank or group of tanks shall be provided with drainage control or shall be diked to prevent
accidental discharge of liquid from endangering adjacent tanks, adjoining property, reaching waterways, or CEF's.
Exceptions:
1. For tank installations having an aggregate volume of less than 50,000 gallons, the fire code official is authorized to alter or waive these requirements
based on a technical report which demonstrates that such tank or group of tanks does not constitute a hazard to other tanks, waterways, CEF's, or
adjoining property, after consideration of special features such as topographical conditions, nature of occupancy and proximity to buildings on the
same or adjacent property, capacity, and construction of proposed tanks and character of liquids to be stored, and nature and quantity of private and
public fire protection provided.
2. Drainage control and diking is not required for listed secondary containment tanks.
5704.2.10.1 Volumetric capacity. The volumetric capacity of the diked area shall not be less than the greatest amount of liquid that can be released from
the largest tank within the diked area plus a 24-hour rainfall as determined by a 25-year storm data from NOAA. The capacity of the diked area enclosing
more than one tank shall be calculated by deducting the volume of the tanks other than the largest tank below the height of the dike.
5704.2.11.1 Location. Flammable and combustible liquid storage tanks located underground shall be in accordance with all of the following:
1. Tanks shall be located with respect to existing foundations and supports such that the loads carried by the latter cannot be transmitted to any portion
of the area excavated for the installation of the tank.
2. The distance from any part of an excavated area intended for the installation of a tank for storing liquids to the nearest wall of a basement, pit, cellar,
or lot line shall not be less than five feet (1523 mm).
3. A minimum distance of two feet (610 mm), shell to shell, shall be maintained between underground tanks.
5704.2.11.2 Depth and cover. Excavation for underground storage tanks shall be made with due care to avoid undermining of foundations of existing
structures. Underground tanks shall be set on firm foundations and surrounded with at least two feet (610 mm) of noncorrosive inert material, such as
clean sand or pea gravel well tamped in place or in accordance with the manufacturer's installation instructions. Tanks shall be covered with a minimum of
two feet (610 mm) of earth or shall be covered by not less than one foot (305 mm) of earth, on top of which shall be placed a slab of reinforced concrete
not less than four inches (102 mm) thick.
When underground tanks are, or are likely to be, subjected to traffic, they shall be protected against damage from vehicles passing over them by at least
three feet (915 mm) of earth cover, or 18 inches (457 mm) of well-tamped earth plus six inches (152 mm) of reinforced concrete, or eight inches (203 mm)
of asphaltic concrete. When asphaltic or reinforced concrete paving is used as part of the protection, it shall extend at least two feet (610 mm) horizontally
beyond the outline of the tank in all directions.
For tanks built in accordance with Section 5704.2.7, the burial depth and the height of the vent line shall be such that the static head imposed at the
bottom of the tank will not exceed 10 psig (68.9 kPa) if the fill or vent pipe is filled with liquid.
If the depth of cover exceeds seven feet (2134 mm) or the manufacturer's specifications, reinforcements shall be provided in accordance with the tank
manufacturer's recommendations.
Nonmetallic underground tanks shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. The minimum depth of cover shall be as specified
above in this section.
5704.2.11.4.1 Inventory control. Daily inventory records shall be maintained for underground storage tank systems. Fill and withdrawal amounts shall be
reconciled monthly.
5803.1.1 Special limitations for indoor storage and use. Flammable gases shall not be stored or used in Group A, E, I or R occupancies or in offices in
Group B occupancies.
about:blank 605/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
Exceptions:
1. Cylinders of nonliquefied compressed gases not exceeding a capacity of 250 cubic feet (7.08 m 3 ) or liquefied gases not exceeding a capacity of 40
pounds (18 kg) each at normal temperature and pressure (NTP) used for maintenance purposes, patient care or operation of equipment.
2. Food service operations in accordance with Section 6103.2.1.7.
6101.2 Permits. The requirements in this chapter for permits to store or use hazardous materials within the City are applicable to a permit to store, use,
handle, or dispense LP-gas, or to install or maintain an LP-gas container.
Permits shall be required as set forth in Section 105.6. As noted in Section 105.6.21.7 of these amendments, a permit is not required for non-commercial
use at a single family residence. However, the information concerning location and exposures, as outlined in the Fire Protection Criteria Manual, shall be
provided to the fire department by the owner of the residence.
Where a single container is over 2,000 gallon (7571 L) or the aggregate capacity of containers is over 4,000 gallon (15,142 L) water capacity, the installer
shall submit plans for the installation.
Distributors shall not fill an LP-gas container for which a permit is required unless a permit for installation has been issued for that location by the fire code
official.
6103.2.1.2 Construction and temporary heating. Portable LP-gas containers are allowed to be used in buildings or areas of buildings undergoing
construction or for temporary heating as set forth in Sections 6.23.4, 6.23.5 and 6.23.8 of NFPA 58.
6103.2.2 Industrial vehicles and floor maintenance machines. LP-gas containers on industrial vehicles and floor maintenance machines shall comply with
Sections 11.11 and 11.12 of NFPA 58.
6104.2 Maximum capacity within established limits. The storage of LP-gas in aggregate quantities greater than 2000 gallons (7571 L) water capacity is not
permitted within the city. The storage of LP-gas in aboveground or below ground containers, greater than 24 gallons (91 L) water capacity and up to a
maximum of 2000 gallons (7571 L) water capacity, is prohibited outside of Major Industry (MI) or Light Industry (LI) districts. Location of containers within a
Light Industry zoning district may be approved by the fire code official, subject to zoning and fire exposure concerns being satisfactorily addressed.
Exceptions:
The fire code official may approve the placement of aboveground or below ground containers for single family residential, multi-family residential or
commercial occupancies on a case-by-case basis, provided the container and appurtenances are listed and installed in accordance with that listing, and
issues such as zoning and fire exposures are satisfactorily addressed. Guidance for evaluating locations for acceptability is published in the Fire
Protection Criteria Manual.
and
Where the nearest off-site exposure(s) is(are) less than 1,000 feet (304.8 m) from the tank(s), the fire code official may approve the placement of
aboveground or below ground containers of LP-gas in aggregate quantities exceeding 2000-gallon water capacity only after notification of
owners/occupants within 1,000 feet (304.8 m) of the tank(s) to assess the potential effect on the community. Notice to adjacent property owners and
occupants shall be accomplished in accordance with the established procedures outlined in the Title 25(Land Development) for notice of applications and
administrative actions or decisions, with the exception that notice shall be made to a distance of 1000 feet (304.8 m).
6104.3.2 Special hazards. LP-gas containers shall also be located with respect to special hazards including, but not limited to, above-ground flammable or
combustible liquid tanks, oxygen or gaseous hydrogen containers, flooding or electric power lines as specified in Sections 6.4 and 6.5 of NFPA 58.
6104.4 Multiple LP-gas container installations. Multiple LP-gas container installations with a total water storage capacity of more than 180,000 gallons
(681 300 L) [150,000-gallon (567 750 L) LP-gas capacity] shall be subdivided into groups containing not more than 180,000 gallons (681 300 L) in each group.
Such groups shall be separated by a distance of not less than 50 feet (15 240 mm), unless the containers are protected in accordance with one of the
following:
1. Mounded in an approved manner.
2. Protected with approved insulation on areas that are subject to impingement of ignited gas from pipelines or other leakage.
3. Protected by firewalls of approved construction.
4. Protected by an approved system for application of water as specified in Table 6.5.1.2 of NFPA 58.
5. Protected by other approved means.
Where one of these forms of protection is provided, the separation shall not be less than 25 feet (7620 mm) between LP-gas container groups.
6107.2 Smoking and other sources of ignition. "No Smoking" signs complying with Section 310 shall be posted when required by the fire code official.
Smoking within 25 feet (7620 mm) of a point of transfer, while filling operations are in progress at LP-gas containers or vehicles, shall be prohibited.
Control of other sources of ignition shall comply with Chapter 3 of this code and Section 6.23 of NFPA 58.
about:blank 606/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
6109.11.2 Construction. The construction of such buildings and rooms shall comply with requirements for Group H occupancies in the Building Code,
Chapter 10 of NFPA 58 and both of the following:
1. Adequate vents shall be provided to the outside at both top and bottom, located at least five feet (1524 mm) from building openings.
2. The entire area shall be classified for the purposes of ignition source control in accordance with Section 6.26 of NFPA 58.
6303.1.1.1.2.1 A maximum of 110 pounds (49.9 kg) of solid Class 3 oxidizer is allowed in nonresidential detached storage adjacent to Group R occupancies,
when such materials are necessary for maintenance purposes associated with swimming pools. The oxidizers shall be stored in approved containers and in
an approved manner.
CHAPTER 80 REFERENCED STANDARDS
This chapter lists the standards that are referenced in various sections of this document and the 2024 International Fire Code. The standards within
Chapter 80 of the 2024 International Fire Code and the amendments adopted by the City are listed herein and in the published code by the promulgating
agency of the standard, the standard identification, the effective date and title, and the section or sections of this document that reference the standard.
The references specifically amended below replace the reference within the published code. All other references remain as published by the International
Code Council (ICC). The application of the referenced standards shall be as specified in Section 102.7.
NFPA National Fire Protection Association
Batterymarch Park Quincy, MA 02269
Standard Title Referenced
Reference In Code
Number Section Number
13—2025 Installation of Sprinkler Systems. 903.3.1.1, 903.3.2, 903.3.8.2,
903.3.8.3.5, 904.14, 905.3.4, 907.6.4,
914.3.2, 1019.3, 1103.4.8, 3201.1,
3204.2, 3205.5, Table 3206.2, 3206.4.1,
3206.10, 3207.2, 3207.2.1, 3208.2.2,
3208.2.2.1, 3208.4, 3210.1, 3401.1,
5104.1, 5104.1.1, 5106.5.7, 5704.3.3.9,
Table 5704.3.6.3(7), 5704.3.7.5.1,
5704.3.8.4
13D—2025 Installation of Sprinkler Systems in One- and Two-Family Dwellings and 903.3.1.3
Manufactured Homes.
13R—2025 Installation of Sprinkler Systems in Residential Occupancies up to and Including 903.3.1.2, 903.3.5.2, 903.4.1
Four Stories in Height.
14—2024 Installation of Standpipe and Hose Systems. 905.2, 905.3.4, 905.4.2,
905.6.2, 905.8
20—2025 Installation of Stationary Pumps for Fire Protection. 913.1, 913.2, 913.5.1
about:blank 607/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
72—2025 National Fire Alarm and Signaling Code. 508.1.6, Table 901.6.1, 903.4.2, 904.3.5,
907.1.2, 907.2, 907.2.6, 907.2.9.3,
907.2.11, 907.2.13.2, 907.3, 907.3.3,
907.3.4, 907.5.2.1.2, 907.5.2.1.3,
907.5.2.2, 907.5.2.2.5, 907.6, 907.6.1,
907.6.2, 907.6.6, 907.7, 907.7.1,
907.7.2, 907.8, 907.8.2, 907.8.4,
915.3.2, 915.3.3, 915.3.4, 915.5.2,
915.6, 917.1, 1032.8, 1103.3.2,
1203.2.4, 1207.5.4, 1207.6.1.2.3,
1207.6.1.2.4, Table 1207.7, 2810.11
92—2024 Smoke Control Systems. 909.7, 909.8
720—2015 Standard for the Installation of Carbon Monoxide (CO) Detection and Warning 915.5.1, 915.5.2, 915.6
Equipment.
855—2023 Standard for the Installation of Stationary Energy Storage Systems. 1201.1
B104.1 General. The fire-flow calculation area shall be the total floor area of all floor levels within the exterior walls, and under the horizontal projections of
the roof of a building.
Exceptions:
1. The fire-flow calculation area of buildings constructed of Types IA and IB construction shall be the area of the three largest successive floors.
2. The fire-flow calculation area for open parking garages of Types IA and IB construction shall be determined by the area of the largest floor.
3. The fire-flow calculation for one- and two-family dwellings, Group R-3 and R-4 buildings and townhouses shall be the total combined fire-flow
calculation areas for structures separated by less than 10 feet (3.05 m).
B104.2 Area separation. Portions of buildings that are separated by fire walls without openings, constructed in accordance with the Building Code, are
allowed to be considered as separate fire-flow calculation areas.
Exception: The fire-flow calculation area of buildings separated by fire walls with openings, constructed in accordance with the Building Code, shall be the
area of the two adjacent portions of the building with the most demanding fire-flow when combined.
Source: Ord. No. 20171207-098, Pt. 1, 1-17-18; Ord. No. 20210603-056, Pt. 1, 9-1-21; Ord. No. 20250410-039, Pt. 1, 7-10-25.