ยง 25-1-705 - REQUIRED AFFORDABILITY PERIOD.
about:blank 46/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
(A) To be eligible for the S.M.A.R.T. Housing program, unless a longer term is required by law, private agreement, or another provision of this Code, all
reasonably priced dwelling units in a S.M.A.R.T. Housing development must remain reasonably priced for the following affordability periods commencing
on the date of initial occupancy:
(1) if the unit is owner-occupied, a period of at least one year, or if the owner is receiving federal housing assistance, a period of at least five years; or
(2) if the unit is a rental unit, a period of at least five years.
(B) If a reasonably-priced dwelling unit within a S.M.A.R.T. Housing development is converted from a rental unit to an owner- occupied dwelling unit during
the applicable affordability period, the dwelling unit shall be subject to the affordability period applicable to an owner-occupied dwelling unit, and the
new affordability period begins on the date that the converted dwelling unit is available for owner occupancy.
(C) If the development does not comply with the requirement to maintain the applicable percentage of dwelling units as reasonably- priced for the duration
of the applicable affordability period, the developer shall reimburse the City for all fees.
(D) Before the director may certify, the applicant shall comply with Section 4-18-25 (Certification) except that the agreement must, at a minimum, include:
(1) terms that require a defaulting applicant to pay the otherwise applicable fees;
(2) liquidated damages in an amount up to twice the amount of fees waived, being such an amount that will fairly compensate the City for administrative
costs incurred; and
(3) liquidated damages that will fairly compensate the City for any breach that results in the loss of reasonably-priced dwelling units during the
affordability period.
Source: Ord. 20071129-100; Ord. No. 20250522-063, Pt. 5, 6-2-25.
Division 3. - Tenant Notification and Relocation.