ยง 25-1-84 - SUBDIVISION CONSTRUCTION PLAN APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND EXPIRATION.
(A) The responsible director may adopt rules establishing the requirements for a subdivision construction plan application, including timelines for completing
staff review as well as when an application may be updated to meet the requirements of this title and other applicable regulations.
(B) The director is authorized to certify a subdivision construction plan as complete if it complies with this subsection.
(1) An application is complete if the applicant has paid the required fee and provided the information required to be included in the application no later
than the 45th day after it was submitted. The responsible director may permit an applicant to omit required information from an application that the
responsible director determines is not material to a decision on the application.
(2) When the director rejects an application as incomplete, the director shall provide an applicant with a written explanation that identifies the
deficiencies and information needed to complete the application. The director must provide the written explanation within 10 working days after the
application is received.
(3) An application expires if it is not complete on or before the 45th day after the application is submitted. An applicant may submit an update to provide
additional information and correct any deficiencies at any time before the 45th day.
(4) A certification that the subdivision construction application is administratively complete is valid for 45 days after the certification has been issued.
(C) The director is authorized to review the subdivision construction plan application if the applicant pays the required fee and the application has a valid
certification of completeness. If the application has not yet been certified, the certification is no longer valid, or the submitted construction plan
application does not match the certified materials, the director will not review the application but shall provide the applicant a written explanation
identifying the deficiencies 10 working days after the application is received.
(D) An application for subdivision construction plan expires one year after the application is submitted unless the application has been approved.
Source: Ord. No. 20230831-141, Pt. 11, 9-11-23.
about:blank 11/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code