§ 2.2. - RELATIONSHIP OF BUILDINGS TO STREETS AND WALKWAYS.
2.2.1. Overview of Roadway Types.
A. Purpose. In this Subchapter, roadway types are used as an organizing tool for certain development standards. In this Section 2.2., sidewalk, building
placement, and streetscape standards and building entryway location are determined by the roadway type that is adjacent to the site. The following
five roadway types are listed from highest to lowest priority for purposes of this Subchapter (See Figures 3 - 5 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord.
20130606-088):
1. Core Transit Corridor;
2. Internal Circulation Route;
3. Urban Roadway;
4. Suburban Roadway; and
5. Highway or Hill Country Roadway.
B. Applicability. The roadway with the highest level of priority adjacent to the lot or site is considered the "principal street" for purposes of this
Subchapter. For a lot or site that is adjacent to more than one roadway of equal priority, the development shall be subject to the standards associated
with the roadway with the highest level of transit service, as determined by the Director, or if the roadways do not have transit service or the level of
transit service is equal, the roadway designated by the lot owner.
For large sites subject to Section 2.2.5. or for sites abutting more than one roadway type, the Sidewalk and Supplemental Zone requirements (but not
the Building Placement and Parking requirements) shall apply along all abutting streets or Internal Circulation Route frontages, with the applicable
requirements determined by the roadway type.
2.2.2. Core Transit Corridors: Sidewalks and Building Placement.
A. Applicability. The following table summarizes the applicability of this section:
Standard Applies if the Principal Street Is: Applies to the Following:
about:blank 261/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
2.2.2. Core Transit Corridors: Sidewalks and Core Transit Corridor - All zoning districts
Building Placement - Single-family residential uses are exempt, in
addition to the general exemptions in Section
1.2.4.
(See Figure 3 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Example of a Core Transit Corridor (South Congress)
(See Figure 4 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Example of an Internal Circulation Route (Midtown Commons)
(See Figure 5 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Example of Highway (1-35)
B. Sidewalks. In order to create an environment that is supportive of pedestrian and transit mobility, public sidewalks shall be located along both sides
of all Core Transit Corridors in accordance with the requirements of this section. Compliance with this section is required for all sites with frontage
along a Core Transit Corridor regardless of principal street designation or building placement requirements, but a development located on one side of
a street or right-of-way is not required to provide sidewalks on the opposite side of the street or right-of-way. A development that complies with the
Great Streets standards adopted by Resolution No. 040205-14, as now or hereafter amended, is exempt from the requirements of this section and
may seek any reimbursements available under the Great Streets Development program.
For development that is subject to the requirements of this section, no sidewalk shall be less than 15 feet in width, unless otherwise approved as part
of the Alternative Equivalent Compliance process. The 15-foot minimum requirement shall apply regardless of the available right-of-way. Where
required, the sidewalk shall extend onto private property to fulfill the 15-foot minimum requirement, with a sidewalk easement provided.
Sidewalks shall consist of two zones: a planting zone located adjacent to the curb, and a clear zone. (See Figures 6 - 9.) The following standards shall
apply to these zones:
(See Figure 6 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Core transit corridor sidewalk requirements. Street trees are required along core transit
corridors with an average spacing not greater than 30 feet on center.)
(See Figure 7 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Core transit corridor with underground utilities)
(See Figure 8 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Core transit corridor with overhead utility zone)
(See Figure 9 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Core transit corridor with overhead utility zone at curb)
1. Planting Zone.
a. The planting zone shall have a minimum width of eight feet (from face of curb) and shall be continuous and located adjacent to the curb.
b. The zone shall be planted with street trees at an average spacing not greater than 30 feet on center. The director shall adopt a list of
acceptable street trees for purposes of this section. The list shall emphasize shade trees; however, alternative trees may only be approved
(pursuant to Section 2.2.2.B.3. below) where conflicts may arise because of overhead utility lines.
c. In addition, the zone is intended for the placement of street furniture including seating, street lights, waste receptacles, fire hydrants, traffic
signs, newspaper vending boxes, bus shelters, bicycle racks, public utility equipment such as electric transformers and water meters, and
similar elements in a manner that does not obstruct pedestrian access or motorist visibility.
2. Clear Zone. The clear zone shall be a minimum width of seven feet, shall be hardscaped, shall be located adjacent to the planting zone, and shall
comply with ADA and Texas Accessibility Standards. The clear zone shall be unobstructed by any permanent or nonpermanent element for a
minimum width of seven feet and a minimum height of eight feet.
3. Utilities.
a. All utility lines shall be underground from the building to the property line. Utility lines within the right-of-way shall be placed underground or
relocated to the rear of the site to the maximum extent practicable.
b. Where electric utilities remain overhead and are located behind the curb, an overhead utility zone shall be provided so that no portion of the
building is located within a 10-foot radius of the energized conductor. This overhead utility zone shall be in addition to the minimum planting
zone, clear zone, and supplemental zone (if provided). Options for street tree planting and sidewalk placement in combination with overhead
utilities are illustrated in Figures 8 and 9.
(See Figures 8 and 9 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088)
c. On lots with a depth of 120 feet or less and where electric utilities remain overhead and are located behind the curb, alternative trees from
the list identified in Section 2.2.2.B.1.b. above may be used so that the trees can be located beneath, rather than offset from, the overhead
electric utilities.
4. Alternative Requirements For Shallow Lots. On lots with a depth of 150 feet or less, the total sidewalk may be reduced to 12 feet, consisting of a
seven-foot minimum planting zone and a five-foot clear zone.
about:blank 262/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
C. Supplemental Zone (Optional). A supplemental zone may be provided at the option of the applicant between the street-facing façade line and the
required clear zone. (See Figures 10 - 11.) The following standards apply to supplemental zones:
(See Figures 10 and 11 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Optional supplemental zone may be expanded to 30 feet for a maximum
of 30 percent of the frontage.)
1. If a supplemental zone is provided, up to 30 percent of the linear frontage of the supplemental zone may be a maximum of 30 feet wide, and the
remainder of the supplemental zone shall be a maximum of 20 feet wide. (See Figures 10 - 11.)
2. Elements that support active public uses can and should be located Within the supplemental zone, including one or more of the following:
a. Accessory outdoor dining, provided that the dining area may be separated from the sidewalk only with planters, shrubs, or fencing with a
maximum height of 42 inches (See Figure 12.);
(See Figure 12 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Example of supplemental zone with outdoor dining.)
b. Balconies, pedestrian walkways, porches, handicap ramps, and stoops; provided, however, that no such feature shall extend beyond the
supplemental zone without a license agreement;
c. Terraces, provided that they have a maximum finished floor height of 24 inches above the sidewalk elevation and shall be surrounded by a
guardrail that meets city specifications;
d. Landscape and water features;
e. Plazas; and
f. Incidental display and sales.
3. Other improvements that support active uses as approved by the Director.
4. Any features in the supplemental zone must not obstruct the open pedestrian connection between the building's primary entrance and the clear
zone.
5. A Transit Plaza adjacent to a Capital Metro, MetroRapid Station.
D. Building Placement.
1. General Building Placement Standard. Notwithstanding the minimum setback requirements of the base zoning districts, at least 75 percent of
the net frontage length of the property along the Core Transit Corridor must consist of continuous building façade built up to the clear zone, or
the supplemental zone if one is provided. (See Figure 13.) For purposes of this Subchapter, "net frontage length" is defined in Article 5. This
minimum net frontage length requirement shall not apply if the site qualifies for one of the exceptions in this subsection.
(See Figure 13 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Examples of permitted building placement along Core Transit Corridors.
Parking is not permitted in the hatched area between the street-facing façade and the sidewalk.)
2. Exception: Civic Buildings. In order to provide greater flexibility to create a distinctive architectural statement, civic buildings, as defined in Article
5, do not have to be built up to the clear zone (or supplemental zone if one is provided), so long as parking is not located between the building
frontage facing the principal street and the street. (See Figure 14.)
(See Figure 14 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; The Austin City Hall is set back from the street in some areas, while other non
civic buildings meet the street. This is a traditional urban design technique intended to emphasize the importance of civic uses.)
3. Exception: Pad-site Building with Drive-In or Drive-Through. A lot or site containing a drive-in or drive-through building may include a circulation
lane of up to 20 feet in width between the building and the curb if the site has only one point of access to a public roadway. The drive-in or drive-
through building located behind the circulation lane need not be built up to the clear zone, but the circulation lane may not have parking and
must contain an accessible and clearly marked walkway that crosses the circulation aisle and connects the clear zone to the building's principal
entrance. (See Figure 15.)
(See Figure 15 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Drive-through uses serviced by a single curb cut do not have to meet the
building placement standards in order to allow for a circulation lane.)
4. Exception: Alternative Equivalent Compliance. If the applicant applies for a modification of this building placement standard through the
alternative equivalent compliance procedure in Section 1.5 because there will not be enough building frontage to meet the 75 percent net
frontage length requirement, the Director may approve an alternative design provided one of the following is met, in addition to the criteria in
Section 1.5.4.:
a. On a site with a single principal building:
(i) The longer side of the building must be built up to the clear zone (or supplemental zone if provided) (See Figure 16.), or
(ii) At least one side of the building must be built up to the clear zone (or supplemental zone if provided) and the majority of the tenant
spaces must have principal entrances facing the principal street (See Figure 17.)
(See Figures 16 and 17 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Alternative building placement options.)
b. On a site with more than one principal building, at least one building must be built to the clear zone (or supplemental zone), and:
about:blank 263/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
(i) The longer side of any building, any portion of which is within 100 feet of the principal street, must be built up to the clear zone (or
supplemental zone if provided), or
(ii) At least one side of any building, any portion of which is within 100 feet of the principal street, must be built up to the clear zone (or
supplemental zone if provided) and the majority of tenant spaces in any such building must have principal entrances facing the principal
street.
5. Exemption for Restaurant or Service Station Redevelopment. The building placement standards in this subsection do not apply to the
redevelopment of an existing pad site restaurant or service station use by the owner or buyer if:
a. the use proposed is a restaurant or service station;
b. the redevelopment occurs within the existing site configuration:
c. sidewalks are provided in compliance with this section.
6. Exception: Small Interior Lots. Development on interior lots with 65 feet or less of frontage on the principal street and with vehicular access only
from the principal street is exempt from the building placement standards of this subsection.
E. Off-Street Parking.
1. Off-street parking is prohibited between the Core Transit Corridor and the corresponding street-facing façade line. (See Figure 18.)
(See Figure 18 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Parking to the side of a building is permitted but screening is required
between the parking and the sidewalk. No parking is permitted between the building and the sidewalk on a Core Transit Corridor.)
2. Any off-street surface parking along a Core Transit Corridor shall have landscape buffering in accord with Section 25-2-1006 of the LDC between
the clear zone (or the supplemental zone if provided) and the parking area. The buffering method chosen must include shade trees.
2.2.3. Urban Roadways:
Sidewalks and Building Placement.
A. Applicability. The following table summarizes the applicability of this section:
Standard Applies if the Principal Street Is: Applies to the Following:
2.2.3. Urban Roadways: Sidewalks and Urban Roadway All non-residential zoning districts
Building Placement
B. Public sidewalks shall be located along both sides of all Urban Roadways in accordance with the requirements of this section. Compliance with this
section is required for all sites with frontage along an Urban Roadway regardless of principal street designation or building placement requirements,
but a development located on one side of a street or right-of-way is not required to provide sidewalks on the opposite side of the street or right-of-
way. A development that complies with the Great Streets standards adopted by Resolution No. 040205-14, as now or hereafter amended, is exempt
from the requirements of this section and may seek any reimbursements available under the Great Streets Development program.
For development that is subject to the requirements of this section, sidewalks shall be no less than 12 feet in width, unless otherwise approved as
part of the Alternative Equivalent Compliance process. (See Figure 19.) The 12-foot minimum requirement shall apply regardless of the available right-
of-way. Where required, the sidewalk shall extend onto private property to fulfill the 12-foot minimum requirement, with a sidewalk easement
provided.
(See Figure 19 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Urban roadway sidewalk width requirements. Note that street trees are optional on
urban roadways.)
Sidewalks shall consist of two zones: a planting zone located adjacent to the curb, and a clear zone. The following standards apply:
1. Planting Zone. The planting zone shall have a minimum width of seven feet and shall be continuous and located adjacent to the curb. In addition,
the planting zone is intended for the placement of street furniture including seating, street lights, waste receptacles, fire hydrants, traffic signs,
newspaper vending boxes, bus shelters, bicycle racks, public utility equipment such as electric transformers and water meters, and similar
elements in a manner that does not obstruct pedestrian access or motorist visibility.
2. Clear Zone. The clear zone shall be a minimum width of five feet, shall be hardscaped, shall be located adjacent to the planting zone, and shall
comply with ADA and Texas Accessibility Standards. The clear zone shall be unobstructed for a minimum width of five feet and a minimum height
of eight feet.
3. Utilities. The standards for utility placement along core transit corridors shall also apply to utility placement along urban roadways. See Section
2.2.2.B.3. (See Figures 20 - 22.)
(See Figure 20 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Underground utilities on an Urban Roadway.)
about:blank 264/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
(See Figure 21 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Above ground utilities at curb on an Urban Roadway.)
(See Figure 22 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Above ground utilities on an Urban Roadway.)
C. Supplemental Zone (Optional). A supplemental zone may be provided, at the applicant's option, between the street-facing façade line and the
required clear zone. If provided, the supplemental zone shall be a maximum of 20 feet wide and shall comply with the standards above in Section
2.2.2.C. (See Figure 23.)
(See Figure 23 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Urban Roadway with optional supplemental zone.)
D. Building Placement.
1. Notwithstanding the minimum setback requirements of the base zoning districts, at least 40 percent of the net frontage length along the Urban
Roadway must consist of continuous building façade built up to the clear zone (or supplemental zone if provided). (See Figure 24.) Net frontage
length is defined in Article 5.
(See Figure 24 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Example of building placement on Urban Roadways. Parking is generally not permitted
in the hatched area between the building façade and the sidewalk, except for shallow lots, as described in paragraph D.)
2. Exception: Pad-site Building with Drive-In or Drive-Through. A lot or site containing a drive-in or drive-through building may include a circulation
lane of up to 20 feet in width between the building and the curb if the site has only one point of access to a public roadway. The drive-in or drive-
through building located behind the circulation lane need not be built up to the clear zone, but the circulation lane may not have parking and
must contain an accessible and clearly marked walkway that crosses the circulation aisle and connects to the clear zone to the building's principal
entrance. (See Figure 15.)
(See Figure 15 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Drive-through uses serviced by a single curb cut do not have to meet the building
placement standards in order to allow for a circulation lane.)
3. Exception: Alternative Equivalent Compliance. If the applicant applies for a modification of this building placement standard through the
alternative equivalent compliance procedure in Section 1.5 because there will not be enough building frontage to meet the 40 percent net
frontage length requirement, the Director may approve an alternative design provided one of the standards in Section 2.2.2.D.4. is met, in
addition to the criteria in Section 1.5.4.
4. Exception: Restaurant or Service Station Redevelopment. The building placement standards in this subsection do not apply to the
redevelopment of an existing pad site restaurant or service station use by the owner if:
a. the use proposed is a restaurant or service station;
b. the redevelopment occurs within the existing site configuration;
c. the sidewalks are provided in compliance with this section.
5. Exception: Small Interior Lots. Development on interior lots with 65 feet or less of frontage on the principal street and with vehicular access only
from the principal street is exempt from the building placement standards of this subsection.
E. Parking. Parking is prohibited between the building(s) and the property line adjacent to the Urban Roadway. However, on sites 400 feet deep or less,
parking may be located between the street-facing façade line and the Urban Roadway if:
1. At least 60 percent of the property's net frontage length along the Urban Roadway consists of continuous building façade (divided into no more
than two buildings) (see Figure 25), or 40 percent of the net frontage length consists of continuous vertical mixed use building façade (divided into
no more than two buildings), built up to the clear zone (or supplemental zone if provided); and
(See Figure 25 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Parking is permitted between the building and the roadway on shallow lots less than
400 feet deep, when certain conditions are met.)
2. Any surface parking along an Urban Roadway shall have landscape buffering in accord with Section 252-1006 of the LDC between the clear zone
(or the supplemental zone if provided) and the parking area; and
3. A sidewalk, 4 minimum width, planted with trees at an average spacing not greater than 30 on center or 4 awning, leads to the main customer
entrance from the clear zone (or supplemental zone if provided). No more than one drive aisle can cross the sidewalk. For multi-tenant
developments, there must be a shaded sidewalk to the street-facing building façade at least every 330 feet of Urban Roadway frontage. (See
Figure 26.)
(See Figure 26 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Examples of shaded sidewalks.)
F. Corner Sites. All sites located on a corner and adjacent to at least one Urban Roadway shall comply with the corner-site standards in Section 2.2.4.E.
2.2.4. Suburban Roadways: Sidewalks and Building Placement.
A. Applicability. The following table summarizes the applicability of this section:
Standard Applies if the Principal Street Is: Applies to the Following:
about:blank 265/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
2.2.4. Suburban Roadways: Sidewalks and Suburban Roadway All non-residential zoning districts
Building Placement (development of any site subject to the
internal circulation system requirements in
Section 2.2.5.)
B. Sidewalks. Public sidewalks shall be located along both sides of all Suburban Roadways in accordance with the requirements of this section.
Compliance with this section is required for all sites with frontage along an Suburban Roadway regardless of principal street designation or building
placement requirements, but a development located on one side of a street or right-of-way is not required to provide sidewalks on the opposite side
of the street or right-of-way. Sidewalks and supplemental zones shall comply with the standards for sidewalks along Urban Roadways in Section 2.2.3.
above.
C. Building Placement.
1. On Suburban Roadways, parking is discouraged between the building and the street. (See Figure 27.) If the property meets the building placement
requirements for Urban Roadways as set forth in Section 2.2.3.D. above and no parking is located between the principal street and any street-
facing building elevation, the project is exempt from the connectivity requirements in Section 2.3.1.
(See Figure 27 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Parking is discouraged between the building and the street on Suburban Roadways.)
2. Exception: Pad-site Building with Drive-In or Drive-Through. A lot or site containing a drive-in or drive-through building may include a circulation
lane of up to 20 feet in width between the building and the curb if the site has only one point of access to a public roadway. The drive-in or drive-
through building located behind the circulation lane need not be built up to the clear zone, but the circulation lane may not have parking and
must contain an accessible and clearly marked walkway that crosses the circulation aisle and connects the clear zone to the building's principal
entrance. (See Figure 15.)
(See Figure 15 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Drive-through uses serviced by a single curb cut do not have to meet the building
placement standards in order to allow for a circulation lane.)
D. Parking. Parking along the street frontage must have:
1. Landscape buffering in accordance with Section 25-2-1006 of the LDC; and
2. A sidewalk, planted with trees at an average spacing not greater than 30 on center, leading to the main customer entrance from the property line.
No more than two drive aisles may cross the sidewalk. For multi-tenant developments, there must be a shaded sidewalk for at least every 330 feet
of frontage along the suburban roadway frontage.
E. Corner Sites. For sites located on a corner on Suburban Roadways:
1. Surface parking is prohibited within the rectangular area formed by the setback lines as measured 100 feet back from the curb line corners (or the
intersection of the curb line tangents), unless (See Figure 28.):
(See Figure 28 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Corner Site on a Suburban Roadway (shown as "principal street"))
a. Landscape buffering between the parking area and the sidewalk is provided in accordance with Section 25-2-1006 of the LDC; and
b. One hundred percent of the building frontage that faces the principal street shall be built to the clear zone (or supplemental zone if provided).
2. The development may not contain an auto-oriented use unless it meets option a. or b. in 2.2.4.E.1. above. For purposes of this provision, auto-
oriented uses shall consist of the following: any use with a drive-through service facility; automotive rentals; automotive repair services;
automotive sales; automotive washing; commercial off-street parking; equipment sales; off-site accessory parking; service station; and vehicle
storage.
2.2.5. Internal Circulation Routes: Sidewalks and Building Placement Requirements for Large Sites.
A. Applicability. The following table summarizes the applicability of this section:
Standard Applies if the Principal Street Is: Applies to the Following:
2.2.5. Internal Circulation Routes: Sidewalks Development of a site five acres or larger with - All zoning districts
and Building Placement Requirements for frontage on a Core Transit Corridor or Urban - See additional exemptions in Subsection C of
Large Sites Roadway this section.
Development of a site five acres or larger with - All non- residential zoning districts
frontage on a Suburban Roadway, Highway, - See additional exemptions in subsection C
or Hill Country Roadway and I of this section
about:blank 266/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
B. Internal Circulation Route. An Internal Circulation Route that establishes blocks and forms an interconnected, grid-like transportation system must
be provided for development subject to this section. (See Figure 29.) An Internal Circulation Route must comply with the requirements of this
subsection and should provide a safe and enjoyable walking environment overlooked by buildings that offer natural surveillance and contact from
their occupants/users.
(See Figure 29 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Example Internal Circulation Route system, blocks must not exceed 5 acres.)
C. Block Standards.
1. Maximum Block Size. Unless exempted by this subsection, a site shall be divided into internal blocks no larger than 5 acres. The maximum length
of any block face, as measured from intersection to intersection, shall be 800 feet.
2. Exemptions from Maximum Block Size.
a. Sites Over 15 Acres. On sites 15 acres or larger, the site may contain one block with a maximum area of 10 acres for each 30 acres (i.e., one
10-acre block on a site of between 15 to 30 acres, two 10-acre blocks on a site of between 30 to 60 acres, etc.). The maximum length of any
block face, as measured from intersection to intersection shall be 800 feet.
b. Office Sites in Drinking Water Protection Zone or Water Supply Watershed. The maximum block length standard does not apply to any site
in the Drinking Water Protection Zone or a Water Supply Watershed designated as a neighborhood office (NO), limited office (LP), or general
office (GO) district.
c. Sites on a Hill Country Roadway. Compliance with this Subsection is not required for the block front adjacent to a Hill Country Roadway to be
divided in a manner inconsistent with Chapter 25-6, Article 6, Division 2 (Access to Hill Country Roadways) or state highway access spacing
requirements.
3. Subdivision of Internal Blocks. Internal blocks abutting Internal Circulation Routes may be subdivided to allow for the sale and development of
individual blocks without frontage on a public street if the Director determines that the Internal Circulation Routes are equivalent to a public
street in terms of utilities, pavement design, and vehicle access requirements. For the purpose of compliance with setback and minimum lot
frontage requirements, an Internal Circulation Route is considered equivalent to a public street.
D. Project Circulation Plan.
1. Plan Requirements.
a. A Project Circulation Plan depicting Internal Circulation Routes required by this section must be submitted with a site plan application for an
area of 5 acres or larger.
b. The Project Circulation Plan must demonstrate that the project:
(i) meets the applicable requirements of this section and Section 2.3 (Connectivity) of this Subchapter;
(ii) integrates with existing and planned streets, bicycle and pedestrian facilities, and trails in the surrounding area; and
(iii) is consistent with area mobility goals, as contained in the Transportation Plan or an approved collector plan.
2. Director Approval.
a. A Project Circulation Plan must be reviewed and approved by the director under the requirements of this section.
b. The Director may approve a Project Circulation Plan containing blocks bounded by railroad right-of-way, subdivision boundary lines, or natural
features if no reasonable alternatives are available.
c. Revisions to the Project Circulation Plan may be approved by the Director after considering the circulation characteristics of a proposed
development plan, the need for access to adjoining properties, and the compatibility of surrounding development.
d. The Director may waive the requirement for a Project Circulation Plan if the Director finds that a plan is not necessary due to the nature of the
proposed development on the site, the existence of surrounding incompatible development, or other factors unique to the property which
make strict compliance infeasible.
E. Sidewalks.
1. Sidewalk Requirements.
a. Publicly accessible sidewalks shall be provided along both sides of all Internal Circulation Routes (whether built as public streets or as private
drives) unless:
(i) no buildable area exists on one side.
b. On portions of the Internal Circulation Route with building frontage the sidewalks and supplemental zones shall:
(i) comply with the applicable standards for Urban Roadways, as provided in Section 2.2.3 (Urban Roadways: Sidewalk and Building
Placement), and
(ii) The planting zone shall be planted with street trees at an average spacing not greater than 30 feet on center. (See Figure 30.)
c. On portions of the Internal Circulation Route that do not contain building frontage a five-foot unobstructed sidewalk shall be provided, all of
which shall be located within 12 feet of the curb. (See Figure 30.)
(See Figure 30 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Required sidewalks on Internal Circulation Routes)
about:blank 267/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
2. Impervious Cover Credit.
a. A project subject to the requirements of this section that is located outside the Barton Springs Zone may exceed watershed impervious cover
limits by up to five percent if the excess impervious cover is attributable to sidewalks.
b. Sidewalks or curbs that cause a project to exceed watershed impervious cover limits as allowed under this subsection may not exceed 15 feet
in width and must be treated in accordance with current water quality standards and constructed with porous concrete or other materials
approved by the Director under Section 2.2.2. (Core Transit Corridors: Sidewalks and Building Placement).
F. Building Placement.
1. Orientation of Building Frontage. Except as otherwise provided in this Section each building must be oriented along either an Internal Circulation
Route or the adjacent public roadway of the highest priority. Each building must meet the building placement standards of the roadway to which it
is oriented.
2. Building Placement Along an Internal Circulation Route. The following standards apply where required building frontage is provided along an
Internal Circulation Route:
a. On a site with a single principal building:
(i) The longer side of the building must be built up to the clear zone (or supplemental zone if provided), or
(ii) At least one side of the building must be built up to the clear zone (or supplemental zone if provided) and the majority of the tenant
spaces must have principal entrances facing the Internal Circulation Route.
b. On a site with more than one principal building:
(i) The longer side of any building, any portion of which is within 100 feet of the Internal Circulation Route, must be built up to the clear zone
(or supplemental zone if provided), or
(ii) At least one side of any building, any portion of which is within 100 feet of the Internal Circulation Route, must be built up to the clear zone
(or supplemental zone if provided) and the majority of tenant spaces in any such building must have principal entrances facing the Internal
Circulation Route.
G. Parking.
1. Off-street parking is prohibited between the Internal Circulation Route and the corresponding street-facing façade line.
2. On-street parallel, head-in angle, and reverse angle parking are allowed on an Internal Circulation Route, subject to compliance with fire access
standards, and, if the Internal Circulation Route is a public street, subject to approval of the Director of Public Works based on administrative
criteria to be adopted. If the Internal Circulation Route is intended to accommodate bicycles, head-in and angle parking is not permitted.
H. Joint Access. If necessary to ensure access to the Internal Circulation Route by the general public and transit vehicles, the director may require joint
use driveways within the site to adjacent properties.
I. On a suburban roadway, a residential only use on a site over 5 acres is exempt from Sections 2.2.5.A-G and must comply with the following:
1. Sidewalks or pedestrian paths are required to connect all buildings and all amenities; and
2. Internal circulation for vehicular connectivity is required. No internal block shall exceed a perimeter measurement of 2,700 linear feet.
Source: Ord. 20060831-068; Ord. 20100408-049; Ord. 20121018-024; Ord. 20130606-088.