ยง 25-2-766.13 - SITE DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
(A) This section applies to:
(1) a new building; or
(2) an addition to a building, if the addition:
(a) exceeds 5,000 square feet of gross floor area; or
(b) increases the gross floor area on the site by more than 50 percent.
(B) The maximum front yard and street side yard setbacks are 15 feet, except the director of the Neighborhood Planning and Zoning Department may modify
a maximum setback if the director determines that:
(1) the modification is required to protect a historic structure or a tree designated as significant by the city arborist; or
(2) the modification allows an alternative development design that is compatible with and supportive of public transit and a pedestrian-oriented
environment and that complies with the TOD district principles and best practices established by administrative rule.
(C) The minimum front yard and street side yard setbacks are the lesser of:
(1) 10 feet; or
(2) the setbacks prescribed by Section 25-2-492 (Site Development Regulations).
(D) This subsection applies in a gateway zone.
(1) Building entrances are required:
(a) on the principal street; and
(b) on a street with transit service, if any.
(2) This paragraph applies to a building that is constructed along a front yard or street side yard setback line.
(a) For a depth of at least 20 feet, the minimum distance between the finished ground floor of the building and the structural portion of the ceiling is
15 feet.
(b) This requirement does not apply if the building is subject to Article 10 (Compatibility Standards) or if the director of the Neighborhood Planning
and Zoning Department determines that the requirement is impractical because of site constraints.
(c) The director of the Neighborhood Planning and Zoning Department may modify this requirement if the director determines that the modification
allows an alternative development design that is compatible with and supportive of public transit and a pedestrian-oriented environment and that
complies with the TOD district principles and best practices established by administrative rule.
(3) This paragraph applies to a commercial or mixed-use building.
(a) For a ground level wall that faces a public street, at least 50 percent of the wall area that is between two and ten feet above grade must be
constructed of glass with a visible transmittance rating of 0.6 or higher.
(b) The director of the Neighborhood Planning and Zoning Department may modify this requirement if the director determines that the modification
allows an alternative development design that is compatible with and supportive of public transit and a pedestrian-oriented environment and that
complies with the TOD district principles and best practices established by administrative rule.
Source: Ord. 20050519-008; Ord. 20061005-052; Ord. 20061116-015; Ord. 20061214-080.