ยง 25-1-602 - SINGLE-FAMILY DEDICATION OF PARKLAND.
(A) For a development proposing single-family uses, parkland dedication will be satisfied by the dedication of suitable land for park and recreational
purposes in accordance with this section or by payment of a fee in-lieu of dedication under Section 25-1-606 (Single-Family Fee In Lieu of Parkland
Dedication).
(B) The following formula will apply to determine the amount of parkland dedication required:
about:blank 38/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
(C) In calculating the amount of parkland to be dedicated, the number of residents per unit is based on density as follows:
Density Classification Residents Per Unit
Low Density: Not more than 6 units per acre 2.8
Medium Density: More than 6 and not more than 12 units per acre 2.2
High Density: More than 12 units per acre 1.7
(D) If the density of a single-family development is not known:
(1) the density is assumed to be the highest permitted in the zoning district, or if the property is not zoned, 24 dwelling units per acre; or
(2) for a residential subdivision within the extraterritorial jurisdiction, the applicant may reduce the assumed density by agreeing, in a manner that is
enforceable by the City and approved by the city attorney, that any subsequent increases in density may require additional dedication of parkland
under this section or payment of a fee in lieu of dedication under Section 25-1-606 (Single-Family Fee In Lieu of Parkland Dedication).
(E) The amount of parkland required to be dedicated within the Parkland Dedication Urban Core may not exceed 15% of gross site area for the development
required to provide the dedication except upon consent of the applicant or as authorized under this subsection.
(1) The director may request that the Land Use Commission approve dedication greater than 15% off the gross site area, up to the amount required
under Subsection (B) of this section, if doing so is necessary to:
(a) address a critical shortage of parkland for an area identified in the Deficient Parkland Area Map; or
(b) provide connectivity with existing or planned parks or recreational amenities.
(2) Before the Land Use Commission considers a request under this subsection for approval, the director shall present the request to the Parks Board for
a recommendation.
(3) In considering a request from the director under this subsection, the Land Use Commission may:
(a) deny the director's request and limit the required dedication to no more than 15% of gross site area; or
(b) require additional parkland dedication greater than the 15% if gross site area, up to the lesser of:
(i) the amount required under Subsection (B) of this section; or
(ii) the minimum amount the Land Use Commission finds to be necessary based on the criteria in Paragraph (l)(a)-(b) of this subsection and the
Parkland Dedication Operating Procedures.
(4) If an applicant dedicates less than the amount of land required for dedication under Subsection (B) due to the cap imposed by this subsection, the
director shall require payment of a fee in-lieu of dedication under Section 25-1-606 (Single-Family Fee in Lieu of Parkland Dedication) for the
remaining undedicated land.
Source: Ord. No. 20231130-087, Pt. 2, 1-1-24.