ยง 25-12-53 - FLOOD LOADS.
(A) General.
(1) Within flood hazard areas as established in Subsection (B) (Establishment of flood hazard areas), all new construction and alterations of buildings,
structures and portions of buildings and structures, including substantial improvement and restoration of substantial damage to buildings and
structures, shall be designed and constructed to resist the effects of flood hazards and flood loads. When new construction constitutes a substantial
improvement or restoration of substantial damage all aspects of the existing structure shall be brought into compliance with the requirements for
new construction for flood design. All elevation requirements noted in this ordinance shall be documented using the Elevation Certificate, FEMA 086-
0-33, and shall be certified by a registered professional engineer, surveyor, or architect, and shall be submitted to the Floodplain Administrator.
(2) Except as otherwise provided, this section applies to residential and non-residential building and structures.
(B) Establishment of flood hazard areas. The City establishes a flood hazard area that includes the following:
(1) areas of special flood hazard areas identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in the current scientific and engineering report entitled,
"The Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Williamson County, Texas and Incorporated Areas" dated December 20, 2019, with accompanying Flood Insurance
Rate Maps (FIRM) dated December 20, 2019, the current scientific and engineering report entitled "The Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Travis County,
Texas and Incorporated Areas" dated January 6, 2016, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps dated January 6, 2016, the current scientific and
engineering report entitled, "The Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Hays County, Texas and Incorporated Areas" dated January 17, 2025, with
accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) dated January 17, 2025, and any revisions are adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
section; and
(2) the 100-year and 25-year floodplains as defined in the Austin City Code are adopted by reference and declared to be part of this section.
(C) Design and construction. The design and construction of buildings and structures, and additions and alterations to buildings and structures located in
flood hazard areas, shall be in accordance with ASCE 24, Flood Resistant Design and Construction.
(1) Elevation Requirements.
(a) Unless otherwise specified in Title 25 (Land Development), the lowest floor of a building or structure shall be elevated a minimum of two feet
above the design flood elevation.
(b) Freeboard. Unless otherwise specified in the Title 25 (Land Development), a minimum freeboard of two foot shall be added where the design
flood elevation or other elevation requirements are specified.
(c) In areas of shallow flooding (AO Zones), the lowest floor (including a basement) of a building or structure shall be elevated higher than the highest
adjacent grade as the depth number specified in feet (mm) on the FIRM plus two feet, or at least three feet (915 mm) if a depth number is not
specified.
(d) A basement floor that is below grade on all sides shall be elevated at least two feet above the design flood elevation.
Exceptions: An enclosed area, including a basement, which is below the design flood elevation but not below grade on all sides shall meet the
requirements in Subsection (C)(2) (Enclosed area below design flood elevation).
(2) Enclosed area below design flood elevation. An enclosed area, including a crawl space, that is below the regulatory flood datum shall:
(a) be used only for parking vehicles, building access or storage excluding property, material, or equipment that may constitute a safety hazard when
contacted by flood waters;
(b) include flood openings that meet the following criteria:
(i) the enclosed area shall have a minimum of two openings located on different sides of the enclosed area; if a building includes more than one
enclosed area below the design flood elevation, each area shall have openings on exterior walls;
(ii) the total net area of all openings shall be at least 1 square inch (645 mm2) per square foot (0.093 m2) of the enclosed area, or the openings
are designed and the construction documents state that the design and installation will provide for the equalization of hydrostatic flood forces
on exterior walls by allowing for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters;
(iii) the bottom of each opening is 1 foot (305 mm) or less above adjacent ground level;
(iv) each opening is at least 3 inches (76 mm) in diameter;
(v) any louvers, screens or other opening covers allow the automatic flow of floodwaters into and out of the enclosed areas;
(vi) a door or window that does not meet the requirements in Subsection (C)(2)(b)(i) through (v) does not comply with this section; and
about:blank 536/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
(vii) constructed of flood damage-resistant materials.
(3) Provisions of safe refuge.
(a) A building or structure constructed in the flood hazard area where the ground surface is below the design flood elevation or where flood water
velocities at the building may exceed five feet per second shall provide an enclosed refuge space two feet or more above the design flood
elevation of sufficient area to provide for the occupancy load with a minimum of 12 square feet per person. The refuge space shall be provided to
an exterior platform and stairway not less than three feet wide.
(b) An existing building or structure in a flood hazard area that is substantially improved or where a change of use or occupancy is made, shall
conform to the requirements of Subsection (a).
(c) Regardless of the structure or space classification, a floor level or portion of a building or structure that is lower than two feet above the design
flood elevation shall not be used residentially, or for storage of any property, materials, or equipment that might constitute a safety hazard when
contacted by flood waters.
(4) Means of egress.
(a) Unless otherwise approved by the building official, normal access to the building shall be by direct connection with an area that is a minimum of
one foot above the design flood elevation.
(b) For a building that is part of a single-family condo regime residential building permit application and part of a site plan that was approved
between December 1, 2017, and November 25, 2019, compliance with this section shall be determined at the time of site plan approval.
(c) For a building that is part of a single-family building permit application and part of (a) a preliminary plan that was submitted for approval between
December 1, 2014, and November 25, 2019, or (b) a final plat that was approved between December 1, 2017, and November 25, 2019, compliance
with this section shall be determined at the time of preliminary plan or final plat approval, respectively.
(d) For all other buildings subject to Article 11 (Residential Code), compliance with this section shall be determined at the time of building permit
application.
Exception: This subsection does not apply to an addition or alteration to an existing building or structure subject to Article 11 (Residential Code)
that is not a substantial improvement as defined in Section 25-12-52 (Definitions).
(5) Installation of openings. The walls of enclosed areas shall have openings installed such that:
(a) There shall be not less than two openings on different sides of each enclosed area; if a building has more than one enclosed area, each area shall
have openings.
(b) The bottom of each opening shall be not more than 1 foot (305 mm) above the higher of the final interior grade or floor and the finished exterior
grade immediately under each opening.
(c) Openings shall be permitted to be installed in doors and windows; doors and windows without installed openings do not meet the requirements
of this section.
(D) Flood hazard documentation. For construction in flood hazard areas, the following documentation shall be prepared and sealed by a registered design
professional and submitted to the building official:
(1) The elevation of the lowest floor, including the basement, as required by the lowest floor elevation inspection in Building Code Section 110.3.3
(Lowest floor elevation) and for the final inspection in Building Code Section 110.3.10.1 (Flood hazard documentation).
(2) For fully enclosed areas below the design flood elevation where provisions to allow for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters do not meet the
minimum requirements in Section 2.6.2.1 of ASCE 24, construction documents shall include a statement that the design will provide for equalization
of hydrostatic flood forces in accordance with Section 2.6.2.2 of ASCE 24.
(3) For dry flood-proofed nonresidential buildings, construction documents shall include a statement that the dry floodproofing is designed in
accordance with ASCE 24.
(4) The as-built elevation documentation of the elevations specified in Section 25-12-53(C)(1) (Elevation Requirements).
(Ord. No. 20210603-059, Pt. 4, 9-1-21; Ord. No. 20241121-079, Pt. 2, 12-2-2024)