ยง 2.1. - INTENT.
The standards of Article 2 are intended to use site planning and building orientation in order to:
2.1.1.
Ensure that buildings relate appropriately to surrounding developments and streets and create a cohesive visual identity and attractive street scene;
2.1.2.
Ensure that site design promotes efficient pedestrian, bicycle and vehicle circulation patterns;
2.1.3.
Ensure the creation of a high-quality street and sidewalk environment that is supportive of pedestrian, bicycle and transit mobility and that is appropriate to the
roadway context;
2.1.4.
about:blank 260/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
Ensure that trees, sidewalks, and buildings - three of the major elements that make up a streetscape - are arranged in a manner that supports the creation of a safe,
human-scaled, and well-defined roadway environment;
2.1.5.
Ensure that trees or man-made shading devices are used to create a pedestrian- and bicycle-friendly environment both alongside roadways and connecting
roadside sidewalks to businesses;
2.1.6.
Ensure that buildings relate appropriately to their roadway context, allowing for easy pedestrian access to buildings and providing well-defined edges to the
roadway environment;
2.1.7.
Ensure that building entranceways are convenient to and easily accessible from the roadside pedestrian and bicycle system;
2.1.8.
Provide opportunities for roadside uses that enliven and enrich the roadway, bicycle and pedestrian environment, such as outdoor dining, porches, patios, and
landscape features;
2.1.9
Ensure that motor vehicle and bicycle parking is accommodated in a manner that enriches and supports, rather than diminishes, the roadside pedestrian and
bicycle environment, that does not create a barrier between the roadside environment and the roadside buildings and that encourages bicycle use by locating
bicycle parking in a visible area; and
2.1.10
Ensure that large sites are developed in a manner that supports and encourages connectivity and creates a cohesive visual identity and attractive street scene.
Source: Ord. 20060831-068; Ord. 20130606-088.