ยง 25-2-352 - HISTORIC DESIGNATION CRITERIA.
(A) The council may designate a structure or site as a historic landmark (H) combining district if:
(1) the property is at least 50 years old and represents a period of significance of at least 50 years ago, unless the property is of exceptional importance
as defined by National Register Bulletin 22, National Park Service (1996);
(2) the property retains a high degree of integrity, as defined by the National Register of Historic Places, that clearly conveys its historical significance and
does not include an addition or alteration which has significantly compromised its integrity; and
(3) the property:
(a) is individually listed in the National Register of Historic Places; or is designated as a Recorded Texas Historic Landmark, State Archeological
Landmark, or National Historic Landmark; or
(b) demonstrates significance in at least two of the following categories:
(i) Architecture. The property embodies the distinguishing characteristics of a recognized architectural style, type, or method of construction;
exemplifies technological innovation in design or construction; displays high artistic value in representing ethnic or folk art, architecture, or
construction; represents a rare example of an architectural style in the city; serves as an outstanding example of the work of an architect,
about:blank 87/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
builder, or artisan who significantly contributed to the development of the city, state, or nation; possesses cultural, historical, or architectural value as a particularly
fine or unique example of a utilitarian or vernacular structure; or represents an architectural curiosity or one-of-a-kind building. A property located within a local
historic district is ineligible to be nominated for landmark designation under the criterion for architecture, unless it possesses exceptional significance or is
representative of a separate period of significance.
(ii) Historical Associations. The property has long-standing significant associations with persons, groups, institutions, businesses, or events of
historic importance which contributed significantly to the history of the city, state, or nation; or represents a significant portrayal of the
cultural practices or the way of life of a definable group of people in a historic time.
(iii) Archeology. The property has, or is expected to yield, significant data concerning the human history or prehistory of the region;
(iv) Community Value. The property has a unique location, physical characteristic, or significant feature that contributes to the character, image,
or cultural identity of the city, a neighborhood, or a particular group.
(v) Landscape Feature. The property is a significant natural or designed landscape or landscape feature with artistic, aesthetic, cultural, or
historical value to the city.
(B) The council may designate an area as a historic area (HD) combining district if at least 51 percent of the principal structures within the proposed district
are contributing to the historic character of the district when the historic preservation officer certifies that the zoning or rezoning application is complete.
(C) The council may enlarge the boundary of an existing historic area (HD) combining district if the additional structure, group of structures, or area adds
historic, archeological, or cultural value to the district.
(D) Except as limited by Subsection (E), the council may reduce the boundary of an existing historic area (HD) combining district if:
(1) the structure to be excluded does not contribute to the historic character of the district;
(2) excluding the structure or area will not cause physical, historical, architectural, archeological, or cultural degradation of the district; or
(3) a reasonable use of the structure that allows the exterior to remain in its original style does not exist.
(E) The minimum size for a historic area (HD) combining district is one block face.
Source: Ord. 041202-16; Ord. 20060622-128; Ord. 20111215-091.