ยง 25-3-3 - OVERVIEW.
(A) A traditional neighborhood district consists of an area of not less than 40 contiguous acres and not more than 250 contiguous acres. In this chapter,
property is considered contiguous even if separated by a public roadway.
(B) A traditional neighborhood district is divided into at least two types of Areas, and each type of Area has different land use and site development
regulations. A traditional neighborhood district must have one Neighborhood Center Area and at least one Mixed Residential Area. A traditional
neighborhood district may also have a Neighborhood Edge Area, a Workshop Area, or an Employment Center Area.
(C) A Neighborhood Center Area serves as the focal point of a traditional neighborhood district, containing retail, commercial, civic, and public services to
meet the daily needs of community residents. A Neighborhood Center is pedestrian-oriented, and it is designed to encourage pedestrian movement
between a Mixed Residential Area and a Neighborhood Center Area. A square is required in a Neighborhood Center Area. Retail and commercial uses
should generally be located adjacent to a square. Neighborhood Center Area uses include retail shops, restaurants, offices, banks, hotels, post office,
governmental offices, churches, community centers, and attached residential dwellings.
(D) A Mixed Residential Area includes a variety of residential land uses including single-family residential, duplex, townhouse, and multi-family. Residential
scale retail and commercial uses are permitted within a Mixed Residential area with strict architectural and land use controls. Retail and commercial uses
in a Mixed Residential area are required to blend into the residential character of the neighborhood. A Mixed Residential area includes open spaces
including small squares, pocket parks, community parks, and greenbelts. A Mixed Residential Area promotes pedestrian activity through well designed
and varied streetscapes that also provide for the safe and efficient movement of vehicular traffic. Mixed Residential Area uses include single-family
homes, condominiums, townhouses, apartments, offices, restaurants, neighborhood scale retail, and civic uses.
(E) A Neighborhood Edge Area is the least dense portion of a traditional neighborhood district, with larger lots and greater setbacks than the rest of the
neighborhood. Alleys are not required, and direct vehicular access to the street is permitted. Only single family residential dwellings are permitted. A
Neighborhood Edge Area is appropriate along the perimeter of the neighborhood. A portion of a traditional neighborhood district that adjoins existing or
platted conventional low density housing must be designated as a Neighborhood Edge Area.
(F) A traditional neighborhood district may have a Workshop Area, an Employment Center Area, or both. Commercial and light industrial uses that are not
appropriate for a Neighborhood Center Area or a Mixed Residential Area but which serve the local residents may be located in a Workshop Area. Large
office and low-impact manufacturing uses may be located within an Employment Center Area. The scale and architectural conventions of a traditional
neighborhood district apply to a Workshop area and an Employment Center Area.
(G) Civic uses that are oriented to the general public are permitted in a Neighborhood Center Area and a Mixed Residential Area. These uses are essential
components of the social and physical fabric of a traditional neighborhood district. Special attention should be paid to the location of government offices,
libraries, museums, schools, churches, and other prominent public buildings to create focal points and landmarks for the community. The locations of
these major public civic uses are designated on the Development Plan at the time of zoning approval.
(H) Open space is a significant part of a traditional neighborhood district design. Formal and informal open spaces are required. These serve as areas for
community gatherings, landmarks, and as organizing elements for the neighborhood. Open space includes squares, plazas, greens, preserves, parks, and
greenbelts.
(I) A traditional neighborhood district is designed to be pedestrian oriented. To accomplish this goal, street pattern and design is used to reduce vehicle
travel speeds and encourage pedestrian activity. An interconnected network of streets and alleys is required. Streets may be smaller than in conventional
development and more varied in size and form to control traffic and give character to the neighborhood.
Source: Section 13-9-3; Ord. 990225-70; Ord. 000309-39; Ord. 031211-11.