ยง 25-1-63 - PROJECT ASSESSMENT.
In this section, subdivision means preliminary plan, plat, or subdivision construction plan.
(A) A person considering subdivision in the planning jurisdiction may request that the director prepare a project assessment of the proposed
development.
(B) A project assessment may be submitted before submitting an application if the application as designed requires consideration of discretionary
approvals such as:
(1) A variance or waiver from a provision in Title 25;
(2) A variance or waiver from criteria manuals adopted to implement the provisions of Title 25;
(3) An alternative method of compliance allowed under Title 25 or the associated criteria manuals;
(4) A recommendation from an advisory board or commission; or
(5) Other discretionary considerations as specified by rule.
(C) A project assessment is based on information provided by the requestor.
(D) A project assessment includes:
(1) an explanation of the procedures and requirements of this title for subdivision;
(2) an identification of potential major issues for the project, including whether:
(a) the proposed land use conforms to the Comprehensive Plan and current zoning;
(b) proposed arterials, if any, comply with the Transportation Plan;
(c) proposed collector streets, if any, are adequate for the projected traffic;
(d) there are significant environmental issues;
(e) there is an official floodplain map delineated;
(f) there is a wildfire risk area map delineated;
(g) adequate utilities are available; and
(h) the proposed density is:
(i) consistent with the requirements of this title;
(ii) appropriate, considering the surrounding land use or zoning; and
(iii) consistent with watershed requirements.
(E) A recommendation included in a project assessment is not a final determination on a variance or waiver. A recommendation included in a project
assessment remains valid for 180 days.
(F) After the request is received, the director shall deliver a project assessment to the requestor within the time frame established by the director by
administrative rule. After its delivery, the requestor may seek a meeting with the director or the director's designee to discuss the project assessment.
Source: Ord. No. 20190822-117, Pt. 4, 9-1-19; Ord. No. 20230413-057, Pt. 2, 4-24-23; Ord. No. 20230831-141, Pt. 4, 9-11-23.