ยง 25-10-122 - HISTORIC LANDMARK COMMISSION REVIEW.
(A) If a person files an application for a sign permit in the historic sign district and the application complies with all applicable regulations of this chapter and
the Building Code, the building official shall immediately notify the historic preservation officer.
(B) The historic preservation officer shall review the application and determine whether it complies with the historic sign district guidelines described in
Subsection (F), if any. If the application complies with the guidelines, the historic preservation officer shall approve the application. Otherwise, the historic
preservation officer shall:
(1) immediately notify the presiding officer of the Historic Landmark Commission of the application; and
(2) give at least 10 days' written notice to the applicant and land owner of the date, time, and place of the meeting at which the Landmark Commission
will consider the application.
(C) The applicant or land owner may waive the 10 day notice of the hearing.
(D) In reviewing a sign permit application, the Historic Landmark Commission shall consider:
(1) the proposed size, color, and lighting of the sign;
(2) the material from which the sign is to be constructed;
(3) the proliferation of signs on a building or lot;
about:blank 494/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
(4) the proposed orientation of the sign with respect to structures; and
(5) other factors that are consistent with the Historic Landmark Preservation Plan, the character of the National Register District, and the purpose of
historic landmark regulations.
(E) The Historic Landmark Commission shall approve a sign permit application if it determines that the proposed sign:
(1) will not adversely affect a significant architectural or historical feature of the historic sign district; and
(2) as applicable, is consistent with the Historic Landmark Preservation Plan, the character of the National Register District, and the purpose of the
historic landmark regulations.
(F) The Historic Landmark Commission may adopt historic sign district guidelines that describe typical signs that comply with the criteria prescribed by
Subsections (D) and (E).
(G) If the Historic Landmark Commission does not review a sign permit application by the 40th day after the date the application is filed, the application is
considered approved by the Historic Landmark Commission.
(H) The applicant or land owner may appeal a decision of the Historic Landmark Commission under this section to the city council in accordance with Chapter
25-1, Article 7, Division 1 (Appeals).
Source: Section 25-10-866; Ord. 990225-70; Ord. 031211-11; Ord. 041202-16; Ord. No. 20170817-072, Pt. 8, 8-28-17.