ยง 25-2-863 - URBAN FARMS.
(A) This section applies to an urban farm use.
(B) An urban farm is allowed within the critical water quality zone if it meets the requirements in 25-8-261(B)(4) (Critical Water Quality Zone Development) for
sustainable urban agriculture or a community garden.
(C) A site area for an urban farm shall not be less than one acre and not more than five acres.
(D)
about:blank 198/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
The number of dwelling units allowed on a site may not exceed the number of dwelling units allowed under the base zoning district regulations. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, not more than two units are allowed on the site. Animal raising in accordance with Section 25-2-863(F) is not allowed without a dwelling on the site.
Accessory structures are permitted without a dwelling.
(E) Raising livestock is prohibited notwithstanding Chapter 3-2 of the City Code.
(F) For properties not zoned residential, raising, slaughtering, processing and composting of fowl, rabbits, and aquatic foods using an aquaponic system is
permitted in accordance with Chapter 3-2 (Restrictions on Animals) of the City Code. One animal (either fowl or rabbit) may be processed per 1/10 th of an
acre per week. Composting, slaughtering or processing of animals must take place at least 50 feet from the nearest residential structure other than the
structure associated with the use. Slaughtering and processing animals must take place out of public view.
For properties zoned residential, raising of fowl, rabbits, and aquatic foods using an aquaponic system is permitted in accordance with Chapter 3-2
(Restrictions on Animals) of the City Code. Slaughtering and processing of aquatics foods is permitted. Slaughtering, processing of fowl and rabbits is
prohibited. Composting of animal parts is prohibited in residential zoning districts.
(G) Water conservation practices must be followed, at minimum in accordance with Chapter 6-4 (Water Conservation) of the City Code.
(H) The use of synthetic inputs is prohibited. An Integrated Pest Management Plan, developed in accordance with the Environmental Criteria Manual and
approved by the Watershed Protection Department, must be followed.
(I) Agricultural and value-added agricultural products raised by the farmer or produced within the State of Texas may be sold from the site or distributed off-
site to buyers. Agricultural products and value-added agricultural products produced off-site by someone other than the farmer cannot exceed 20% of
the retail space by area.
(J) Employees are permitted. The maximum number of full-time, non-seasonal employees is two for each full acre, plus two for the remaining portion of an
acre, if any. This does not include the property owner.
(K) The residential character of the lot and dwelling must be maintained.
(L) For an urban farm use, a sign is permitted in accordance with Chapter 25-10-155 (Urban Farm Sign).
(M) Agricultural education activities as referenced in Chapter 25-2-7 (Agricultural Uses Described) do not require a temporary use permit.
Source: Ord. 000406-86; Ord. 031211-11; Ord. 20110210-018; Ord. 20131121-105, Pt. 3, 3-21-14.