ยง 25-8-231 - WATER QUALITY CONTROL MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION.
(A) In this section:
(1) COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT means all development other than Residential Development.
(2) COMMERCIAL POND means a required water quality control or appurtenance that receives stormwater runoff from a Commercial Development.
(3) ECM STANDARDS means the provisions in the Environmental Criteria Manual regarding maintenance of a required water quality control or
appurtenance.
about:blank 430/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
(4) RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT means development of two dwelling units or less per lot.
(5) RESIDENTIAL POND means a required water quality control or appurtenance that receives stormwater runoff from a Residential Development.
(B) The record owner of a commercial development shall maintain the commercial pond serving the commercial development in accordance with the ECM
standards, whether or not the commercial pond is located on the same property as the commercial development. The record owner shall provide the City
proof of the right to access and maintain the commercial pond if it is not located on the same property as the commercial development.
(C) If more than one commercial development is served by a single commercial pond, the record owners of the commercial pond and all commercial
developments served by the commercial pond shall be jointly and severally responsible for maintenance of the commercial pond in accordance with the
ECM standards.
(D) The director of the Watershed Protection Department may authorize an alternative arrangement for maintenance of a residential or commercial pond in
accordance with the Environmental Criteria Manual standards. If an alternative arrangement is approved by the director, the city attorney shall determine
whether an agreement is necessary; the agreement must be approved by the city attorney and filed of record.
(E) The City shall inspect each commercial pond that is not a subsurface pond at least once every three years to ensure that the commercial pond is being
maintained in accordance with the ECM standards. If the commercial pond fails inspection requiring an additional inspection, the director of the
Watershed Protection Department may charge a re-inspection fee.
(F) The record owner of a subsurface commercial pond must provide the Watershed Protection Department with a maintenance plan and an annual report
from a registered engineer verifying that the pond is in proper operating condition.
(G) Until the City accepts a residential pond for maintenance, the record owner(s) of the residential pond and the residential development served shall
maintain the residential pond in accordance with the ECM standards.
(H) The City shall be responsible for maintenance of a residential pond only after the residential pond has been accepted for maintenance by the city. The city
will accept a residential pond upon determining that it meets the requirements of the Environmental Criteria Manual and, if applicable, Section 25-8-234
(Fiscal Security In The Barton Springs Zone).
Source: Sections 13-7-9 and 13-7-11(a); Ord. 990225-70; Ord. 010329-18; Ord. 031211-11; Ord. 20090820-060; Ord. 20131017-046.