ยง 25-6-658 - DEFINITIONS.
(A) In this article:
(1) ASSESSMENT means amount of the maximum street impact fee per service unit imposed on new development.
(2) CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT means a roadway facility with a life expectancy of at least three years, to be owned and operated by or on behalf of the City
including a newly constructed roadway facility or the expansion of an existing roadway facility necessary to new development.
(3)
about:blank 394/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
DEVELOPMENT UNIT is a measure of each land use used to determine number of service units. The development unit is identified in the Land-Use, Vehicle-Mile
Equivalency Table.
(4) FINAL PLAT APPROVAL means when the plat has been released by the City for filing with the County. This term applies to both original plats and
replats.
(5) LAND USE ASSUMPTIONS mean a description of the service areas and the projections of population and employment growth and associated changes
in land uses, densities, and intensities adopted by the City.
(6) LAND USE, VEHICLE-MILE EQUIVALENCY TABLE or LUVMET means the table set forth in the street impact fee study that provides the standardized
measure of use of roadway facilities attributable to a new development, in terms of vehicle miles per development unit.
(7) INSIDE LOOP SERVICE AREAS means those service areas located within the highway boundaries of SH 71, US 183 and SL 360.
(8) MAXIMUM STREET IMPACT FEE means the street impact fee that is established for each service area. The maximum assessable street impact fee shall
be established and reflected in the street impact fee study.
(9) NEW DEVELOPMENT means a project which requires either the approval of a plat or the issuance of a building permit.
(10) OFFSET means the amount of the reduction of a street impact fee to reflect the value of any construction of or contributions to a system facility, or
dedications of an offsite system facility, and which are identified on or eligible for inclusion in the roadway capacity plan.
(11) OUTSIDE LOOP SERVICE AREAS means those service areas located outside the highway boundaries of SH 71, US 183 and SL 360.
(12) RECOUP means to reimburse the City for capital improvements which the City has previously installed or caused to be installed.
(13) ROADWAY CAPACITY PLAN or RCP means the capital improvements or roadway facility expansions and associated costs for each service area that are
necessitated by and which are attributable to new development within the service area, for up to ten years.
(14) ROADWAY FACILITY means an improvement or appurtenance to a street.
(15) SERVICE AREA means the geographic area within the City's corporate limits and within the geographic area street impact fees for capital
improvements will be collected for new development.
(16) SERVICE UNIT means one vehicle mile of travel in the afternoon peak hour of traffic.
(17) SITE RELATED FACILITY means a site improvement, as defined in Section 25-6-1 (Definitions).
(18) STREET IMPACT FEE means a fee, charge, or assessment for roadway facilities imposed on new development by the City to recoup all or part of the
costs of capital improvements or facility expansion necessitated by and attributable to such new development.
(19) STREET IMPACT FEE STUDY means the study that includes the land use assumptions, designation of street impact fee services areas, roadway capacity
plan, the vehicle-mile equivalency table, and the computation of maximum street impact fees per service unit for each service area.
(20) SYSTEM FACILITY means a system improvement, as defined in Section 25-6-1 (Definitions).
Source: Ord. No. 20201210-062, Pt. 2, 12-21-20.