ยง 25-9-194 - BOND-RELATED PROVISIONS.
(A) The following provisions must be included in a water district consent agreement.
(1) A water district must pledge the revenue and ad valorem taxes of the water district to the payment of the principal of and interest on all bonds issued
by the district.
(2) A bond may be issued by a water district only for a purpose authorized by state law.
(3) A bond issued by a water district for one purpose may not be used for another purpose.
(4) The City, to insure the economic vitality of a water district and to the extent authorized by the laws of this state, may limit the amount of bonds the
water district may issue.
(5) To insure compliance by a water district with each applicable condition or restriction imposed in connection with the consent of the City to the
creation of the water district, the council is entitled to approve the issuance or sale of a water district bond before the water district issues a bid
invitation for the bond. If the water district is not in compliance with each applicable condition:
(a) the council may not approve the issuance or sale of the bond; and
(b) the water district may not issue or sell the bond.
(6) Each bond issued by a water district must include a call provision that permits the water district to redeem the bond at par.
(7) A water district may not spend the proceeds of a bond or incur any indebtedness for the purpose of providing service to territory outside the
boundary of the water district without the approval of the Council.
(8) The net effective interest rate of a bond issued by a water district may not exceed 102 percent of the highest average interest rate reported by the
Daily Bond Buyer in its weekly "20 Bond Index" during the one month period preceding the date that notice of sale is given.
(B) In consenting to the creation of a water district, the City may impose an additional condition or restriction on the terms, provisions, or sale of a bond or
note of the water district. A condition or restriction imposed under this subsection may not cause the bond or note to be unmarketable.
Source: Section 13-4-6; Ord. 990225-70; Ord. 031211-11.