ยง 25-2-742 - SOUTH SHORE CENTRAL SUBDISTRICT REGULATIONS.
(A) This section applies in the South Shore Central subdistrict of the WO combining district.
(B) The primary setback lines are located:
(1) 150 feet landward from the Town Lake shoreline;
(2) 80 feet from the East Bouldin Creek centerline; and
(3) 35 feet north of the northern public right-of-way boundary of Riverside Drive.
(C) The secondary setback lines are located:
(1) 50 feet landward from the primary setback line parallel to the Town Lake shoreline; and
(2) 130 feet from the primary setback line parallel to the East Bouldin Creek centerline.
(D) This subsection applies to a nonresidential use in a building adjacent to park land adjoining Town Lake.
(1) For a ground level wall that is visible from park land or a public right-of-way that adjoins park land, at least 60 percent of the wall area that is between
2 and 10 feet above grade must be constructed of clear or lightly tinted glass. The glass must allow pedestrians a view of the interior of the building.
(2) Entryways or architectural detailing is required to break the continuity of nontransparent basewalls.
(3) Except for transparent glass required by this subsection, natural building materials are required for an exterior surface visible from park land
adjacent to Town Lake.
(E) For a structure property adjacent to and oriented toward Riverside Drive, a building basewall is required, with a maximum height of:
(1) 45 feet, if north of Riverside Drive; or
(2) 35 feet, if south of Riverside Drive.
(F) That portion of a structure built above the basewall and oriented toward Riverside Drive must fit within an envelope delineated by a 70 degree angle
starting at a line along the top of the basewall with the base of the angle being a horizontal plane extending from the line parallel to and away from the
surface of Riverside Drive.
(G) The maximum height is:
(1) for structures located between the primary and secondary setback lines, the lower of 35 feet or the maximum height allowed in the base zoning
district;
(2) for structures located south of Riverside Drive between South Congress Avenue and East Bouldin Creek, the lower of 45 feet or the maximum height
allowed in the base zoning district;
(3) for structures located within 100 feet of the right-of-way of South Congress Avenue or South First Street, the lower of 60 feet or the maximum height
allowed in the base zoning district; and
(4) for structures located in all other areas of the subdistrict, the lower of 96 feet or the maximum height allowed in the base zoning district.
Source: Section 13-2-702(k); Ord. 990225-70; Ord. 031211-11; Ord. 20090611-074.