ยง 25-2-7 - AGRICULTURAL USES DESCRIBED.
(A) Agricultural uses include the on-site production of plant and animal products by agricultural methods.
(B) Agricultural use classifications are described as follows:
(1) ANIMAL PRODUCTION use is the use of a site for the raising of animals or production of animal products including eggs and dairy products, on an
agricultural or commercial basis. This use includes grazing, ranching, dairy farming, and poultry farming.
(2) AQUAPONIC SYSTEM is the symbiotic cultivation of fish and plants in a recirculation system.
(3) COMMUNITY GARDEN use is the use of a site for growing or harvesting food crops or ornamental crops on an agricultural basis, by a group of
individuals for personal or group use, consumption or donation.
(4) CROP PRODUCTION use is the use of a site for the raising and harvesting of tree crops, row crops, or field crops on an agricultural or commercial
basis, including packing and processing.
(5) HORTICULTURE use is the use of a site for the growing of horticultural or flora cultural specialties, including flowers, shrubs, and trees intended for
ornamental or landscaping purposes, but excluding retail sales. This use includes wholesale plant nurseries and greenhouses.
(6) SUPPORT HOUSING use is the use of a site for living accommodations by agricultural employees or their families.
(7) URBAN FARM use is the use of a site that can consist of multiple contiguous parcels that is at least one acre in size cultivated primarily for the
sustainable production of agricultural products to be sold for profit and may provide agricultural education activities. Agricultural education activities
include volunteer programs, farm tours, youth programs and farming classes.
(8) MARKET GARDEN use is the use of a site that is less than one acre in size cultivated primarily for the sustainable production of agricultural products to
be sold for profit and may provide agricultural education activities. Agricultural education activities include volunteer programs, farm tours, youth
programs and farming classes.
(9)
about:blank 67/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
INDOOR CROP PRODUCTION use is the use of a site for the raising and harvesting indoors of tree crops, row crops, or field crops on an agricultural or commercial
basis, including packing and processing.
Source: Section 13-2-6; Ord. 990225-70; Ord. 000406-86; Ord. 031211-11; Ord. 20110210-018; Ord. 20131121-105, Pt. 1, 3-21-14.