ยง 25-8-184 - ADDITIONAL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL REQUIREMENTS IN THE BARTON SPRINGS ZONE.
(A) This section provides additional erosion and sedimentation control requirements for development in the Barton Springs Zone.
(B) A temporary erosion and sedimentation control plan and a water quality plan certified by a registered professional engineer and approved by the director
is required.
(1) The plans must describe the temporary structural controls, site management practices, or other approved methods that will be used to control of off-
site sedimentation until permanent revegetation is certified as completed under Section 25-8-182 (Development Completion).
(2) The temporary erosion control plan must be phased to be effective at all stages of construction. Each temporary erosion control method must be
adjusted, maintained, and repaired as necessary.
(C) The director may require a modification of the temporary erosion control plan after determining that the plan does not adequately control off-site
sedimentation from the development. Approval by the director and the engineer who certified the plan is required for a major modification of the plan.
(D) The owner shall designate a project manager who is responsible for compliance with the erosion and sedimentation control and water quality plan
requirements during development.
(E) The length of time between clearing and final revegetation of development may not exceed 18 months, unless extended by the director.
(F) If an applicant does not comply with the deadline in Subsection (E), or does not adequately maintain the temporary erosion and sedimentation controls,
the director shall notify the applicant in writing that the City will repair the controls or revegetate the disturbed area at the applicant's expense unless the
work is completed or revegetation is begun not later than the 15th day after the date of the notice.
(G) A person commits an offense if the person allows sediment from a construction site to enter a waterway by failing to maintain erosion controls or failing
to follow the approved sequence of construction.
Source: Section 13-7-14(e); Ord. 990225-70; Ord. 010329-18; Ord. 031211-11; Ord. 20131017-046; Ord. No. 20221027-045, Pt. 16, 11-7-22.