ยง 25-11-33 - EXISTING BUILDINGS.
(A) Except as provided in Subsection (B), a person shall comply with technical code requirements for new facilities when making an addition, alteration, or
repair to a building or structure or to building service equipment.
(B) The building official may allow a person to:
(1) make a minor addition, alteration, or repair to existing building service equipment in accordance with the technical codes in effect at the time the
equipment was originally installed;
(2) use, maintain, or repair building service equipment that was lawfully in existence at the time of the adoption of the technical codes in accordance with
the original design if the building service equipment does not create a hazard to life, health, or property; and
(3) except as provided in Subsection (C), use the type of materials used in the original construction of an existing building or structure to make a
nonstructural alteration or repair if the alteration or repair does not adversely affect a structural member or the required fire resistance of a part of
the building or structure.
(C) A person must comply with requirements for new installations when installing or replacing glass.
about:blank 507/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
(D) A person who makes an addition, alteration, or repair to a building or structure or to building service equipment is not required to conform the portions
of the existing building not affected by the addition, alteration, or repair to requirements for new facilities.
(E) A person may not create a condition in an existing building or structure or in existing building service equipment that violates the technical codes as a
result of an addition or alteration.
(F) A person may not create an unsafe condition in an existing building or structure or in existing building service equipment as a result of an addition or
repair. An unsafe condition exists if an addition or alteration:
(1) causes the existing building or structure to become structurally unsafe;
(2) overloads or exceeds the capacity of building service equipment;
(3) results in inadequate egress or obstructs existing exits;
(4) creates a fire hazard;
(5) reduces fire resistance; or
(6) creates a health hazard or a condition dangerous to human life.
Source: Section 13-1-732(a) through (e); Ord. 990225-70; Ord. 031211-11.