ยง 25-6-656 - BICYCLE PARKING FUND.
(A) An applicant may request to pay a fee instead of installing bicycle parking by filing a written request at the time the person submits a permit application in
the manner prescribed by the director. An applicant who has not filed a request at the time of application, may later amend the application to request to
pay the fee instead of installing a bicycle parking.
(B) Fund use and administration. The Bicycle Parking Fund is collected and administered by the Public Works Department - Neighborhood Connectivity
Division. The funds collected will be used to install bicycle parking and associated improvements in the right-of-way in the same service area as the
subject property in the application. The service area boundaries shall be determined by the Planning and Development Review Department.
(C) For bicycle parking required under Section 25-6-477 (Bicycle Parking), the director shall approve payment of a fee instead of installation of a bicycle
parking space if the director determines that:
(1) on the date the property was subdivided, the land development regulations did not include a bicycle parking requirement; and
(2) there is not sufficient area on or in the premises to accommodate the minimum required bicycle parking; and
(3) more than 50 percent of the block face on which the property is located has available space for bicycle parking.
(D) The director may approve payment of a fee instead of installation of bicycle parking if the director determines that installation is impractical because:
(1) installation of the bicycle parking would require the removal of a protected tree or other major obstruction within the right-of-way; or
(2) other unusual circumstances make the bicycle parking installation requirement unreasonable or inappropriate.
(E) The amount of the fee is the current bicycle parking materials and installation cost and will be determined by Administrative Rule.
(F) A fee paid under this section must be used to install bicycle parking in the same service area, as established by the Administrative Rules.
(G) The City may refund the fee to the applicant if it is not spent or allocated for a specific project within 10 years of the date of its collection.
Source: Ord. 20130523-104.