ยง 25-8-517 - EXPIRATION OF PRIOR APPROVALS.
Within the watersheds contributing to Barton Springs, the following provisions shall govern the expiration of certain prior approvals:
(1) Previously Approved Preliminary Subdivision Plan:
(a) Unless it has or will have expired sooner, a preliminary subdivision plan initially approved before the effective date of this article expires one year
after the effective date of this article, or two years after its initial approval whichever date is later, unless an application for final plat approval is
filed before this expiration date and a final plat is approved no later than 180 days after filing.
(b) No approved preliminary plan, and no portion of an approved preliminary plan, shall be valid or effective after the expiration date established by
this part, or shall be extended, revised, or renewed to remain effective after the expiration date, except according to Subsection (3) of this section.
(2) Previously Approved Site Plan:
(a) Unless it has or will have expired sooner, a site plan or phase or portion thereof initially approved before the effective date of this article shall
expire one year after the effective date of this article, or three years after its initial approval, whichever date is later, unless:
(i)
about:blank 447/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
An application is filed before this expiration date for building permits for all structures shown on the site plan or phase or portion thereof and designed for human
occupancy, and the building permits are approved and remain valid and certificates of occupancy are issued no later than two years after this expiration date; or
(ii) If no building permits are required to construct the structures shown on a site plan described in Subsection (2)(a) of this section, construction
begins on all buildings shown on the site plan or portion or phase thereof before this expiration date, and the buildings are diligently
constructed and completed, and certificates of compliance or certificates of occupancy are issued no later than two years after this expiration
date.
(b) No approved site plan, and no separate phase or portion of an approved site plan, shall be valid or effective after the expiration date established
by this part, or shall be extended, revised, or renewed to remain effective after the expiration date, except according to Subsection (3) of this
section.
(3) Approved Plans Which Comply: An approved preliminary subdivision plan, portion of a preliminary plan, approved site plan, or separate phase or
portion of an approved site plan that complies with this article or that is revised to comply with this article does not expire under Subsection (1) or (2)
of this section and remains valid for the period otherwise established by law.
Source: Section 13-7-36.7; Ord. 990225-70; Ord. 031211-11; Ord. 20060216-045.