§ 25-10-102 - TEMPORARY ON-PREMISE SIGNS.
(A) Purpose and Applicability. This section establishes general requirements for signs that are allowed on a temporary basis. A sign allowed under this
section:
(1) must comply with all applicable regulations of this chapter and the Building Code, but may be installed or modified without obtaining a permit or
other approval from the City; and
(2) is in addition to other signs allowed by this section or by another provision of this chapter.
(B) Signs Associated with Activity Affecting Real Property.
(1) For purposes of this subsection, an "activity affecting real property" means the construction, remodeling, improvement, development, sale, or lease of
a building or the land on which the building is located.
(2) One freestanding or wall sign that meets the following requirements may be displayed no sooner than 30 days before an activity affecting real
property begins and no later than 30 days after that same activity ends:
(a) No more than one sign for each lot is allowed or, for a unified development, one sign for each access point.
(b) For a freestanding sign, the maximum sign area is the lesser of:
(i) 128 square feet;
(ii) in a low-density residential sign district, 12 square feet; or
about:blank 492/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
(iii) in a multifamily residential sign district, 48 square feet.
(c) For a wall sign, the maximum sign area is ten percent of the area of the building façade.
(d) The height of a freestanding or wall sign may not exceed:
(i) 22 feet above grade; or
(ii) for a low-density residential sign district, six feet above grade.
(C) Decorative Signs. A decoration, such as those which displayed during a holiday season, that would otherwise not be allowed under this chapter may be
displayed on a property for no more than 45 consecutive days or 90 days per year.
(D) Signs Associated with Commercial Events, Sales, Products, and Services. A wall sign, such as those typically associated with a commercial event, sale, or
similar activity that does not normally occur on a property, is allowed if:
(1) the property contains a commercial use;
(2) the sign is displayed for not more than 30 days, at least one of which must be a day on which a lawfully permitted special event, sale, or other activity
that does not normally occur on the property is scheduled to occur; and
(3) limited to a maximum sign area of:
(a) 96 square feet, for a sign attached to a building; or
(b) 30 percent of the window area, for a sign displayed in a window.
(E) Signs Associated with Residential Garage Sales and Neighborhood Meetings. A sign, such as those typically associated with a garage sale, yard sale,
neighborhood meeting, or similar activity that does not normally occur on a property, is allowed if:
(1) the property contains a residential use; and
(2) the sign is displayed for no more than seven consecutive days, at least one of which must be a day on which a lawfully permitted activity or event that
does not normally occur on the property is scheduled to occur.
(F) Signs Associated with Political Elections. A freestanding or wall sign that meets the following requirements may be displayed no sooner than 60 days
before, and no later than 10 days after, an election is held for any federal, state or local political office representing citizens of the City:
(1) For each premise, the total sign area of the signs described in this subsection may not exceed 36 square feet.
(2) A sign described in this subsection may not:
(a) exceed eight feet in height;
(b) have a moving part.
(G) Signs Associated with School Events. A sign or banner located on a site containing a public primary or secondary educational facility may be placed on a
lawfully permitted building or fence located on the facility's property, but may not be displayed for more than 150 consecutive days.
Source: Ord. No. 20170817-072, Pt. 4, 8-28-17.