§ 25-1-608 - MULTI-FAMILY PARKLAND DEDICATION FEE.
(A) For purposes of determining the amount of a parkland dedication fee required for approval of a development permit proposing multi-family
development, City Council has designated all the land within its municipal boundaries into geographic areas via separate ordinance. These designations
may be modified as set out under state law.
(B) The dwelling unit factor shall be:
(1) .005 for multi-family units; and
(2) .004 for rooms in a hotel or motel ordinarily used for sleeping.
(C) The density factor shall be:
(1) one for the suburban area;
(2) four for the urban area; and
(3) forty for the central business district area.
(D) Every 10 years, the City will use the average land value for each geographic area calculated by the applicable appraisal district. For the years in which the
applicable appraisal district does not calculate the average land value, the City shall calculate the average land value for each geographic area by
multiplying the previous year's average land value for each geographic area by one plus the average CPI for each month of the previous year.
(E) If the director has determined that an applicant will satisfy their parkland dedication requirements entirely by paying a parkland dedication fee, the dollar
amount required is calculated using the following formula:
{[(# of multifamily units) × .005] + [(# of hotel/motel rooms) × .004]} × (Avg Land Value of Geographic Area)/Density Factor
(1) First, add the product of the number of multifamily units proposed to be developed by .005 and the product of the number of hotel and motel rooms
ordinarily used for sleeping proposed to be developed by .004.
(2) Then, multiply the sum calculated under Subdivision (E)(1) by the average land value for the geographic area where the development is located.
(3) Finally, divide the number calculated under Subdivision (E)(2) by the applicable density factor.
(F) If the director has determined that an applicant is satisfying their parkland dedication requirements through dedicating land and paying a parkland
dedication fee, the dollar amount of parkland dedication fee owed is calculated using the following formula:
[Parkland dedication fee per Subsection (E)] - [(Applicable land value) × (# of acres)]
(1) First, calculate the amount of fee using the formula described in Subsection (E).
(2) Then, subtract the product of the land value applicable to the land and the number of acres dedicated from the total amount of the parkland
dedication fee.
(G) If the applicant is dedicating land and paying a reduced fee, the applicant will only be required to dedicate for development approval an acreage amount
that has a land value that does not exceed the amount of parkland dedication fee calculated under this section. Additionally, the acreage amount shall
not exceed 10% of gross site area of the development.
(H) If there is a remaining amount of parkland dedication fee after subtracting the land value of the acreage required to be dedicated as parkland, the
applicant may choose to construct recreational facilities on the future parkland in lieu of paying the remaining parkland dedication fee amount. The
recreational facilities must be shown on the subdivision or site plan application and constructed before the land is dedicated.
Source: Ord. No. 20231130-087, Pt. 2, 1-1-24.