§ 2.5. - EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
2.5.1. Applicability.
The following table summarizes the applicability of this section:
about:blank 270/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
Standard Applies if the Principal Street Is: Applies to the Following:
2.5: Exterior Lighting All roadway types All zoning districts
2.5.2. Standards.
A. Submission of Plans and Evidence of Compliance. Building plan applications shall include a description of all lighting fixtures, both proposed and
those that will remain on the site, as well as any existing or proposed fixtures to be located in adjacent right-of-ways after completion of the project.
For new fixtures, the description may include, but is not limited to, catalog cuts and illustrations by manufacturers (including sections where
required), that demonstrate compliance with the standards of this Subchapter.
B. Fully Shielded or Full Cut-off Light Fixtures Required. The following outdoor lighting applications shall be illuminated by fixtures that are either fully-
shielded or full cut-off: (See Figure 34.)
(See Figure 34 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Examples of fully-shielded light fixtures.)
1. Public street and pedestrian lighting;
2. Parking lots;
3. Pathways;
4. Recreational areas;
5. Billboards;
6. Product display area lighting; and
7. Building overhangs and open canopies.
C. Lighting of Building Façades.
1. Buildings and structures shall be illuminated by fixtures that are either fully-shielded or full cut-off and may only be used to highlight specific
architectural features. However, existing building mounted fixtures that are not fully-shielded or full cut-off may be replaced with lighting that is
fully-shielded or full cut-off. This provision shall not apply to buildings in the downtown that are at least 120 feet tall, so long as such buildings
contain no trademarked design features (not including signage) located over 120 feet above ground level.
D. Directional Luminaires. Directional luminaires that are not fully-shielded or full cut-off may be used to illuminate signs and flagpoles. Such luminaires
shall be installed and aimed so that they illuminate only the specific object or area and do not shine directly onto neighboring properties, roadways,
or distribute excessive light skyward.
E. Lamp or Fixture Substitution. Should any outdoor light fixture or the type of light source therein be changed after site plan or building plan approval
has been granted, a change request must be submitted to the Director for approval, together with adequate information to assure compliance with
this Subchapter, which must be received prior to substitution.
Source: Ord. 20060831-068; Ord. 20130606-088.