ยง 25-11-217 - DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT PROCEDURE.
(A) The historic preservation officer and the Commission are authorized to work with a property owner to encourage maintenance and stabilization of the
structure and identify resources available before taking enforcement action under this section.
(B) Except as provided in Subsection (C), the following procedures apply to enforcement of this chapter.
(1) The Commission or the historic preservation officer may initiate an investigation of whether a property is being demolished by neglect.
(2) Upon initiation of an investigation, the historic preservation officer shall:
(a) attempt to meet with the property owner to inspect the structure and discuss the resources available for financing any necessary repairs; and
(b) prepare a report for the Commission on the condition of the structure, the repairs needed to maintain and stabilize the structure, and the amount
of time needed to complete the repairs.
(3) The Commission shall review the historic preservation officer's report and may vote to certify the property as a demolition by neglect case.
(4) If the Commission certifies the property as a demolition by neglect case, the historic preservation officer shall take the following actions.
(a) Send notice to the property owner or the property owner's agent, by certified mail, describing the required repairs and specifying:
(i) that repairs must be started within 60 days; and
(ii) a date by which repairs must be completed, as determined by the historic preservation officer.
about:blank 518/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
(b) Meet with the property owner within 90 days after the notice is sent, if the historic preservation officer determines that it would be useful to
discuss progress in making repairs and consider any issues that may delay completion of repairs.
(5) The historic preservation officer may refer a demolition by neglect case to the Building and Standards Commission, the City Attorney, or the
appropriate city department for enforcement action to prevent demolition by neglect if the property owner fails to:
(a) start repairs by the deadline set in the notice;
(b) make continuous progress toward completion; or
(c) complete repairs by the deadline set in the notice.
(6) The historic preservation officer shall provide notice of a referral under Subsection (B)(5) of this section to the property owner. The owner may appeal
the historic preservation officer's referral to the city council.
(C) If immediate enforcement is necessary to prevent imminent destruction or harm to a designated historic landmark or contributing structure, the historic
preservation officer may refer the structure or landmark to the appropriate city department to enforce this chapter and to seek correction of any
condition prohibited under Subsection 25-11-216 (Duty to Preserve and Repair).
Source: Ord. 20090806-068.