ยง 25-2-6 - CIVIC USES DESCRIBED.
(A) Civic uses include the performance of utility, educational, recreational, cultural, medical, protective, and governmental functions, and other uses that are
strongly vested with public or social importance.
(B) Civic use classifications are described as follows:
(1) ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES use is the use of a site for provision of offices or administrative, clerical, or public contact services, together with incidental
storage and maintenance of necessary vehicles. This use includes offices and courthouses serving federal, state, county, and city government.
(2) ADULT CARE SERVICES (GENERAL) use is the use of a site for the provision of care for less than 24 hours per day for more than 6 persons who are 18
years of age or older.
(3) ADULT CARE SERVICES (LIMITED) use is the use of a site for the provision of care for less than 24 hours per day for 6 or fewer persons who are 18
years of age or older.
(4) AVIATION FACILITIES use is the use of a site for provision of landing fields, aircraft parking and service facilities, and related facilities for operation,
service, fueling, repair, storage, charter, sales, or rental of aircraft, including activities directly associated with the operation and maintenance of
airport facilities.
(5) CAMP use is the use of a site for provision of indoor or outdoor activities for children, including sports, arts and crafts, entertainment, recreation,
educational activities, swimming, fishing, horseback riding, and incidental food service. If incidental to the camp use, camp facilities may be used to
provide meeting, recreation, or social facilities for a private association or group.
(6) CEMETERY is the use of land that is dedicated for cemetery purposes for the burial of the dead, including columbariums, crematoriums, mausoleums,
and mortuaries.
(7) CHILD CARE SERVICES (GENERAL) use of a site for the provision of care for less than 24 hours per day for more than 12 persons who are less than 18
years of age or are eligible to utilize child care under federal or state laws. This use includes nursery schools, preschools, day care centers for children,
and similar uses, and excludes public and private primary or secondary educational facilities.
(8) CHILD CARE SERVICES (LIMITED) use of a site for the provision of care for less than 24 hours for 12 or fewer persons who are less than 18 years of age
or are eligible to utilize child care under federal or state laws. This use includes nursery schools, preschools, day care centers for children, and similar
uses, and excludes public and private primary or secondary educational facilities.
about:blank 65/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
(9) CLUB OR LODGE use is the use of a site for provision of meeting, recreational, or social facilities by a private or nonprofit association, primarily for use
by members and guests. This use includes private social clubs and fraternal organizations.
(10) COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY FACILITIES use is the use of a site as an educational institution of higher learning that offers a course of study designed to
culminate in the issuance of a degree in accordance with the Texas Education Code.
(11) COMMUNICATION SERVICE FACILITIES use is the use of a site for the transmission, transfer, or distribution of telephone service and related activities.
(12) COMMUNITY EVENTS use is a use described in Local Government Code Chapter 334 as permitted for an "approved venue project", except for a hotel,
zoological park, museum, or aquarium. The use includes the sale of alcoholic beverages.
(13) COMMUNITY RECREATION (PRIVATE) use is the use of a site for the provision of an indoor or outdoor recreational facility for use by residents or
guests of a residential development, planned unit development, church, private primary or secondary educational facility, club or lodge, or non-profit
organization.
(14) COMMUNITY RECREATION (PUBLIC) use is the use of a site for the provision of an indoor or outdoor recreational facility for use by the general public,
but not for economic gain.
(15) CONGREGATE LIVING use is the use of a site for the provision of 24 hour supervision and assisted living for more than 15 residents not needing
regular medical attention. This use includes personal care homes for the physically impaired, mentally retarded, developmentally disabled, or persons
60 years of age or older, basic child care homes, maternity homes, and emergency shelters for victims of crime, abuse, or neglect.
(16) CONVALESCENT SERVICES use is the use of a site for the provision of bed care and in-patient services for persons requiring regular medical attention.
This use excludes the provision of surgical or emergency medical services and the provision of care for alcoholism, drug addiction, mental disease, or
communicable disease.
(17) CONVENTION CENTER use is the use of a site for the provision of space or facilities owned or managed by the City for conventions, meetings,
exhibitions, shows, gatherings, presentations, or celebrations, including related incidental facilities for office and administrative use, food and
beverage preparation and service, and on-site and off-site parking facilities.
(18) COUNSELING SERVICES use is the use of a site for the provision of daytime counseling to neglected or abused children, 15 years of age or younger, or
their managing conservators, who are referred by a governmental entity or other counseling service providers.
(19) CULTURAL SERVICES use is the use of a site for a library, museum, or similar facility.
(20) DETENTION FACILITIES use is the use of a site for the provision by a public agency of housing and care for legally confined individuals.
(21) EMPLOYEE RECREATION use is the use of a site for the provision of an indoor or outdoor recreational facility for use by employees of a business
engaged in basic industry, commercial services, manufacturing, administrative activities, or research and development services, that is located on
property reserved by the business for future expansion.
(22) GUIDANCE SERVICES use is the use of a site for the provision of daytime counseling, guidance, recuperative, or similar services to persons requiring
rehabilitation assistance as a result of mental illness, alcoholism, detention, drug addiction, or similar condition.
(23) HOSPITAL SERVICES (GENERAL) use is the use of a site for the provision of medical, psychiatric, or surgical services on an in-patient basis, and includes
ancillary facilities for out-patient and emergency treatment, diagnostic services, training, research, administration, and services to patients,
employees, and visitors.
(24) HOSPITAL SERVICES (LIMITED) use is the use of a site for the provision of medical, psychiatric, or surgical services on an out-patient basis, and
includes emergency treatment, diagnostic services, training, administration, and services to out-patients, employees, and visitors.
(25) LOCAL UTILITY SERVICES use is the use of a site for the provision of services that are necessary to support the development in the area and involve
only minor structures including lines and poles.
(26) MAINTENANCE AND SERVICE FACILITIES use is the use of a site for the provision of maintenance, repair, vehicular or equipment servicing, material
storage, or similar activities, and includes equipment service centers and similar uses having characteristics of commercial services, contracting, or
industrial activities.
(27) MAJOR UTILITY FACILITIES use is the use of a site for the provision of generating plants, electrical switching facilities or primary substations, refuse
collection or disposal facilities, water or wastewater treatment plants, or similar facilities.
(28) MILITARY INSTALLATIONS use is the use of a site for the provision of military facilities by the federal or state government.
(29) PARKS AND RECREATION SERVICES (GENERAL) use is the use of a site for the provision of parks, playgrounds, recreation facilities, or open spaces
available to the general public and under the management or control of a public agency.
(30) PARK AND RECREATION SERVICES (SPECIAL) use is the use of a site for the sale of beer or wine in a building that is located in a park or recreation
facility under the management or control of a public agency.
(31) POSTAL FACILITIES use is the use of a site for the provision of postal services and includes post offices, bulk mail processing, and sorting centers
operated by the United States Postal Service.
(32) PRIVATE PRIMARY EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES use is the use of a site for a private or parochial school offering instruction at the elementary school level
in the branches of learning and study required to be taught in the public schools of the state.
(33) PRIVATE SECONDARY EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES use is the use of a site for a private or parochial school offering instruction at the junior and senior
high school levels in the branches of learning and study required to be taught in the public schools of the state.
about:blank 66/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
(34) PUBLIC PRIMARY EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES use is the use of a site for a public school offering instruction at the elementary school level in the
branches of learning and study required to be taught in the public schools of the state. The term includes an open enrollment charter school as
defined under the Texas Education Code.
(35) PUBLIC SECONDARY EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES use is the use of a site for a public school offering instruction at the junior and senior high school levels
in the branches of learning and study required to be taught in the public schools of the state. The term includes an open enrollment charter school as
defined under the Texas Education Code.
(36) QUALIFIED COMMUNITY GARDEN use is a garden that complies with the requirements of Chapter 8-4 (Qualified Community Garden) of the City Code.
(37) RAILROAD FACILITIES use is the use of a site for provision of railroad yards, equipment servicing facilities, or terminal facilities.
(38) RELIGIOUS ASSEMBLY use is regular organized religious worship or religious education in a permanent or temporary building. The use excludes
private primary or secondary educational facilities, community recreational facilities, day care facilities, and parking facilities. A property tax
exemption is prima facie evidence of religious assembly use.
(39) RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT use is 24 hour supervision, counseling, or treatment for more than 15 residents not needing regular medical attention. This
use includes alcohol and chemical dependency rehabilitation facilities, facilities to which persons convicted of alcohol or drug-related offenses are
ordered to remain under custodial supervision as a condition of probation or parole, and residential care facilities and halfway houses for the
emotionally ill.
(40) SAFETY SERVICES use is the use of a site for provision of public safety and emergency services, and includes police and fire protection services and
emergency medical and ambulance services.
(41) TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER use is the use of a site for provision of a structure built exclusively to support one or more antennae for receiving or
transmitting electronic data or telephone communications.
(42) TRANSITIONAL HOUSING use is the use of a site for the supervision or detention of more than 15 residents who are making the transition from
institutional to community living. This use includes pre-parole detention facilities and halfway houses for juvenile delinquents and adult offenders,
and overnight shelters for the homeless.
(43) TRANSPORTATION TERMINAL use is the use of a site for the provision of a facility for the loading, unloading, or interchange of passengers, baggage, or
incidental freight or package express between modes of transportation, and includes bus terminals, railroad stations, airport terminals, and public
transit facilities.
(C) This subsection applies to a provision of this code or other ordinance, resolution, or rule that was in effect before October 30, 2023.
(1) Daycare services (commercial) use or daycare services (general) use has the same meaning as adult care services (general) use or child care services
(general) use as defined in Subsection (B).
(2) Daycare services (limited) use has the same meaning as adult care services (limited) use or child care services (limited) use as defined in Subsection
(B).
Source: Section 13-2-5; Ord. 990225-70; Ord. 990902-57; Ord. 031211-11; Ord. No. 20160623-090, Pt. 1, 7-4-16; Ord. No. 20190207-050, Pt. 1, 2-18-19; Ord. No.
20231019-052, Pts. 1, 2, 10-30-23; Ord. No. 20231207-001, Pt. 3, 12-18-23.