ยง 25-6-668 - AFFORDABILITY RELATED REDUCTIONS.
about:blank 397/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
(A) An applicant who complies with the requirements of this section may request a 100 percent reduction of the street impact fee for all service units that
meet the requirements in Subsection (B).
(B) To be eligible for a reduction under this section, affordable housing must be a housing unit located within the corporate limits of the City that is:
(1) approved for local, state, or federal funding for affordable housing as verified by the director of the Housing and Planning Department; or
(2) certified by the director of the Housing and Planning Department under another affordable housing program of City Code that meets the
requirements of this section.
(C) To retain a reduction under this section, a unit of affordable housing must comply with the requirements of this subsection.
(1) A rental unit must be available for occupancy for a period of not less than 40 years by an occupant whose gross household income does not exceed
60 percent of the median family income for the Austin Metropolitan Statistical Area.
(2) An owner-occupied unit must be available for occupancy for a period of not less than 99 years by an occupant whose gross household income does
not exceed 80 percent of the median family income for the Austin Metropolitan Statistical Area.
(3) An affordability period prescribed by this subsection begins on the date that an affordable unit is available for occupancy.
(D) An applicant who requests a reduction under this section must submit an application to the director of the Housing and Planning Department
demonstrating compliance.
(E) If the director of the Housing and Planning Department certifies that a proposed development meets the requirements of this division, the accountable
official is authorized to process a development application.
(F) Before the director of the Housing and Planning Department may certify that a proposed development meets the requirements of this section, the
applicant shall execute:
(1) an agreement to preserve the minimum affordability period and related requirements imposed by this division; and
(2) a document for recording in the real property records that provides notice of or preserves the minimum affordability requirements imposed by this
division.
(3) The form of the documents described in this section must be approved by the city attorney.
(G) If an applicant who receives a reduction under this section does not comply with Subsection (B), defaults on its obligations under documents executed
under Subsection (C), or does not perform in accordance with the conditions for receipt of the reduction, the City may initiate legal proceedings to
recover the street impact fees that would have applied to the housing unit and damages.
(H) A reduction under this section may not be assigned or transferred by the applicant to another property.
Source: Ord. No. 20201210-062, Pt. 2, 12-21-20.