§ 2.8 - SHADE AND SHELTER.
2.8.1. Purpose.
Austin's climate requires shade and shelter amenities in order to accommodate and promote pedestrian activity. These amenities will provide greater connectivity
between sites and allow for a more continuous and walkable network of buildings.
2.8.2. Applicability.
The following table summarizes the applicability of this section:
Standard Applies if the Principal Street Is: Applies to the Following:
2.8. Shade and Shelter All roadway types - Development of any nonresidential land use
except for congregate care facilities zoned MF
for which the principle street is not a Core
Transit Corridor
- This section applies to any building frontage.
Building façades facing loading areas, rear
service areas, or façades adjoining other
buildings (attached to more than 50 percent
of the sidewall) are exempt.
A. Standards. Projects subject to this section shall meet the following shade and shelter requirements:
1. A shaded sidewalk must be provided alongside at least 50 percent of:
a. the roadway or Internal Circulation Route where building frontage is provided under the requirements of this Subchapter; and
b. any parking adjacent to the building.
2. When adjacent to parking, the shaded sidewalk shall be raised above the level of the parking by way of a defined edge. ADA ramps alongside the
building must also be shaded. (See Figure 38.)
(See Figure 38 set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 20130606-088; Example of an ADA ramp with shade structure.)
3. A shaded sidewalk must meet the following requirements:
a. Along a roadway or Internal Circulation Route where building frontage is provided a shaded sidewalk shall comply with the applicable sidewalk
standards for that roadway type. If not otherwise required, the shaded sidewalk shall provide trees planted no more than 30 feet on center or
a 4′ awning.
b.
about:blank 274/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
Along any parking adjacent to the building the shaded sidewalk shall consist of a minimum 5 foot clear zone and 5 foot planting zone, planted with trees no more
than 30 feet on center, or a 5 foot clear zone with a minimum 5 foot wide weather protection.
4. Building entrances and exits, other than those used solely for emergency purposes or for deliveries, shall be located under a shade device such as
an awning or portico.
Source: Ord. 20130606-088.