ยง 25-4-157 - SUBDIVISION ACCESS STREETS.
(A) In this section:
(1) ACCESS STREET means a street that provides access to a subdivision by connecting to an external street.
(2) ADDITIONAL PEDESTRIAN ACCESS means a pedestrian path that meets City standards for a sidewalk or trail, is established to connect a new street in
a subdivision to an existing street on adjoining property, and is at least 300 feet from an access street.
(3) EXTERNAL STREET means a street that is outside the boundaries of a subdivision, and that is:
(a) a publicly maintained street;
(b) a street that is offered for dedication and for which a construction performance bond is posted pending acceptance of the dedication; or
(c) a private street that complies with the requirements of this Code and each applicable criteria manual.
(B) Except as otherwise provided in this section:
(1) a new subdivision must have at least two access streets; and
(2) each of the two access streets must connect to a different external street.
(C) A new subdivision may have only one access street if the director determines that:
(1) except as provided in Subsection (E), the subdivision has an additional pedestrian access;
(2) the access street:
(a) does not cross nor is adjacent to an area identified as high risk Wildland Urban Interface area, as determined by the Austin Fire Department in
accordance with the Austin Fire Department Wildfire Risk Map;
(b) is not inundated by more than nine inches of water by a 100-year flood, as determined in accordance with the Drainage Criteria Manual; and
(c) has a paved width of at least 36 feet from the intersection of the access street with the external street for a distance of:
(i) 100 feet; or
about:blank 348/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
(ii) 50 feet if the access street has curb and gutter; and
(3) the access street:
(a) is not more than 2,000 feet in length, and provides access to not more than 30 single-family residential dwellings; or
(b) is an arterial or collector street, and its intersection with the external street will function at a level of service of "C" or better during construction
and after build-out of the subdivision, as determined by an intersection analysis that is:
(i) approved by the director; and
(ii) if the subdivision generates more than 1,000 vehicle trips a day, prepared by a registered professional engineer in accordance with the
Transportation Criteria Manual, or Transportation Research Board Special Report 209, "Highway Capacity Manual", published in 1994.
(D) A new subdivision may have only one access street if the director determines that:
(1) except as provided in Subsection (E), the subdivision has an additional pedestrian access; and
(2) providing more than one access street is undesirable, unnecessary, or impractical after considering:
(a) traffic circulation;
(b) traffic safety;
(c) flood and fire safety;
(d) topography;
(e) the density of the subdivision and surrounding developed property;
(f) whether later development of adjacent property is anticipated to provide additional access;
(g) whether traffic through the subdivision should be limited;
(h) the environmental effect of a cut or fill, waterway crossing, or other surface disturbance necessary to provide more than one access street;
(i) whether the access street is a divided street;
(k) whether adverse effects, if any from permitting one access street are mitigated, including whether secondary pedestrian access is provided; and
(l) whether the subdivider:
(i) owns adjacent property through which access can be provided;
(ii) has the right to provide a second access street across another person's property; or
(iii) is able to develop the subdivision if more than one access street is required.
(E) The director may waive or modify the requirement of Subsection (C) or (D) for additional pedestrian access if the director determines that providing
additional pedestrian access is impractical because of existing development or topography.
Source: Ord. 030306-48A; Ord. 031211-11; Ord. 20080214-095; Ord. No. 20230413-057, Pt. 3, 4-24-23.
Division 3. - Lots.