ยง 25-1-461 - APPEAL.
(A) A person may appeal a stop work order, remove or restore order, revocation, or suspension issued under this division by giving written notice to the
accountable official not later than the third day after:
(1) the stop work order or remove or restore order is posted; or
(2) the person receives notice of the revocation or suspension.
(B) The notice of appeal must contain:
(1) the name and address of the appellant;
(2) a statement of facts;
(3) the decision being appealed; and
(4) the reasons the decision should be set aside.
(C) The accountable official shall hear the appeal not later than the third working day after the appeal is filed. The appellant, the appellant's expert, and the
department may offer testimony to the accountable official.
(D) The accountable official shall affirm or reverse the department's decision not later than the second working day after the hearing. The official shall give
written notice of the decision and a statement of the reasons for the decision to the appellant.
(E) The appellant may appeal the accountable official's decision to the Land Use Commission or appropriate technical board by giving written notice to the
accountable official and the presiding officer of the Land Use Commission or appropriate technical board not later than the third working day after
receiving notice of the decision. The notice of appeal must contain the information described in Subsection (B).
(F) The Land Use Commission or appropriate technical board shall hear the appeal at the next regularly scheduled meeting following receipt of the notice of
appeal. An appeal is automatically granted if the Land Use Commission or appropriate technical board does not hear the appeal before the 21st day
following receipt of the notice of appeal.
(G) A stop work order, remove or restore order, suspension, or revocation remains in effect during the pendency of an appeal under this section.
Source: Section 13-1-69; Ord. 990225-70; Ord. 010607-8; Ord. 031211-11.