ยง 25-1-711 - PURPOSE, APPLICABILITY, EXCEPTIONS AND DEFINITIONS.
(A) The requirements of this division seek to mitigate, through notification requirements and relocation assistance, the impacts of tenant displacement
resulting from multi-family redevelopment and the demolition or change in use of multi-family properties and mobile home parks. This division does not
regulate or affect the landlord-tenant relationship.
(B) Except where otherwise provided, the requirements of this division do not apply to any dwelling unit:
(1) demolished or vacated because of damage caused by the tenant or by other events beyond the owner's control, including fire, civil commotion,
malicious mischief, vandalism, tenant waste, natural disaster or other destruction;
(2) owned by a public housing agency;
(3) located inside the boundaries of an educational institution that is occupied by students, faculty, or staff of the institution;
(4) for which relocation assistance is required to be paid to the tenants under federal or state law; or
(5) that is operated as emergency or temporary shelter for homeless persons and owned or administered by a nonprofit organization or public agency.
(C) In this division,
(1) MOBILE HOME PARK means a site containing five or more structures that:
(a) are transportable in one or more sections;
(b) in travelling mode, are at least 8 feet in width or 40 feet in length or, when erected onsite, are 320 square feet or more in area;
(c) are built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling, with or without a permanent foundation; and
(d) includes plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems; or
(e) satisfies all criteria other than the size requirements in Paragraph (1)(b).
(2) MULTI-FAMILY PROPERTY means a property that includes at least five residential units;
(3) MULTI-FAMILY REDEVELOPMENT means the demolition, alteration, repair, partial demolition, redevelopment, rezoning, or change in use of a multi-
family property, or any portion of a multi-family property, or a mobile home park;
(4) TENANT DISPLACEMENT means any condition that requires a tenant to vacate a multi-family building or mobile home park due to multi-family
redevelopment, where a tenant will not be relocated to another comparably sized unit within the same building or site; and
(5) UNPERMITTED REDEVELOPMENT means multi-family redevelopment that occurs without the appropriate approval under this title.
Source: 20160901-050, Pt. 4, 9-12-16; Ord. No. 20230831-103, Pt. 3, 9-11-23.