ยง 25-2-1524 - DEVELOPMENT PLAN REVISIONS.
(A) Except as provided in Subsection (B), the approval of the Planning Commission is required to revise a development plan. The revision must comply with
Section 25-2-1523 (Development Plan Approval Criteria).
(B) The director of the Neighborhood Planning and Zoning Department may approve a minor revision to a development plan if the director of the
Neighborhood Planning and Zoning Department determines that the revised plan complies with the applicable requirements of this subchapter. The
following are minor revisions:
(1) a change in the location of a land use, if the director of the Neighborhood Planning and Zoning Department determines that the basic layout of the
development plan remains the same, and that the proposed change does not negatively affect existing adjacent land uses;
(2) a reduction in the number of dwelling units;
(3) a reduction in the total gross floor area of the commercial uses;
(4) a change in the mix of residential uses;
(5) a change in the transportation network if the director of the Neighborhood Planning and Zoning Department determines that the basic layout of the
development plan remains the same;
(6) a change in the size or location of community open space, if the director of the Neighborhood Planning and Zoning Department determines that the
quality and functionality of the overall community open space is not reduced;
(7) a change in the location or type of a drainage or water quality control facility, if the director of the Neighborhood Planning and Zoning Department
determines that the basic layout of the development plan remains the same;
(8) a change in the location or type of an critical environmental feature, if the director of the Neighborhood Planning and Zoning Department determines
that the revision more accurately describes the feature; and
about:blank 243/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
(9) a change in the location of a 100-year floodplain, if the director of the Neighborhood Planning and Zoning Department determines that the revision
more accurately describes the floodplain.
(C) An interested party may appeal the director of the Neighborhood Planning and Zoning Department's decision under Subsection (B) to the Planning
Commission.
Source: Ord. 000406-81; Ord. 010329-18; Ord. 031211-11.
Division 2. - Residential Infill Special Use.