ยง 25-8-263 - FLOODPLAIN MODIFICATION.
(A) All floodplain modifications must:
(1) be designed to accommodate existing and fully-vegetated hydraulic conditions;
(2) apply sound engineering and ecological practices, prevent and reduce degradation of water quality, and demonstrate the stability and integrity of
floodplains and waterways, as prescribed in the Environmental Criteria Manual;
(3) restore floodplain health, or provide mitigation if restoration is infeasible, to support natural functions and processes as prescribed in the floodplain
modification criteria in the Environmental Criteria Manual; and
(4) comply with the requirements of Chapter 25-7 (Drainage), the Drainage Criteria Manual, and the Environmental Criteria Manual.
(B) Floodplain modification within a critical water quality zone is prohibited except as allowed under Section 25-8-261 (Critical Water Quality Zone
Development).
(C) Floodplain modification outside a critical water quality zone is allowed only if the modification proposed:
(1) is necessary to protect public health and safety by addressing an existing threat, as determined by the director;
(2) is designed solely to improve floodplain health, as determined by a functional assessment of floodplain health as prescribed by the Environmental
Criteria Manual;
(3) is located within a floodplain area classified as in fair or poor condition, as determined by a functional assessment of floodplain health, and provides
restoration or mitigation in accordance with the ratios and specifications prescribed in the Environmental Criteria Manual; or
(4) is the minimum modification necessary for development allowed under Section 25-8-261 (Critical Water Quality Development) or 25-8-262 (Critical
Water Quality Zone Mobility Crossings).
(D) If on-site restoration, as prescribed in the Environmental Criteria Manual, is infeasible and mitigation is required under this section, it may be satisfied by:
(1) paying into the Riparian Zone Mitigation Fund a nonrefundable amount established by ordinance;
(2) transferring in fee simple or placing restrictions on mitigation land approved by the director and meeting the following conditions:
(a) located within the same watershed classification;
(b) in accordance with the procedures in Subsection (H)(3) of Section 25-8-26 (Redevelopment Exception in the Barton Springs Zone);
(c) dedicated to or restricted for the benefit of the City, or another entity approved by the director, and which the City or other approved entity
accepts; and
(d) an amount proportionate to the amount of area within the existing floodplain that is proposed to be modified, as prescribed in the Environmental
Criteria Manual; or
(3) a combination of the mitigation methods described in Subsections (D)(1) and (D)(2), if approved by the director.
Source: Ord. No. 20221027-045, Pt. 25, 11-7-22.
Division 2. - Protection for Special Features.