ยง 25-1-604 - STANDARDS FOR DEDICATED PARKLAND.
(A) In addition to the requirements of this article, land to be dedicated as parkland must meet the requirements of this subsection.
(1) Parkland must be easily accessible to the public and open to public view so as to benefit area residents, enhance the visual character of the City,
protect public safety, and minimize conflicts with adjacent land uses.
(2) On-street and off-street connections between residential neighborhoods shall be provided, wherever possible, to provide reasonable access to parks
and open space areas.
(3) In addition to the requirements of this subsection, parkland must comply with the standards in the Comprehensive Plan, the Parks and Recreation
Long-Range Plan, the Environmental Criteria Manual, and the Parkland Dedication Operating Procedures.
(4) If an applicant is proposing multifamily uses, the parkland shall not be encumbered with restrictions that will negatively impact the parkland's ability
to be used for recreational purposes with park amenities unless:
(a) there is no feasible and prudent alternative land available for parkland dedication as determined by the director; and
(b) the land will provide a critical greenbelt or trail connection with sufficient recreational opportunities.
(B) The director shall determine whether land offered for dedication complies with the standards for dedication under Subsection (A) and may require a
subdivision or site plan applicant to provide information deemed necessary to determine compliance.
(C) If an applicant is proposing single-family uses, then the director may allow land that does not otherwise meet the standards under Subsection (A) to be
dedicated as parkland if the land meets the requirements of this subsection.
(1) 50 percent of acreage in the 100-year floodplain that is dedicated as parkland may be credited toward fulfilling the requirements of this article if any
adjoining land within the 25-year floodplain is also dedicated as parkland. The land within the 25-year floodplain may not be credited toward fulfilling
the requirements of this article, unless it complies with Subdivision 25-l-604(C)(2).
(2) Land identified on the Deficient Parkland Area Map may be accepted if the director determines that the land will provide recreational or educational
opportunities for the surrounding community. If the director determines the land has recreational or educational opportunities, 50 percent of the
acreage may be credited toward fulfilling the requirements of this article.
(D) If land dedication is required for subdivision approval, the area to be dedicated must be shown on the preliminary plan and final plat as "Parkland
Dedicated to the City of Austin." The subdivider shall dedicate to the City all parkland required by this article when a plat is approved, except that the
director may defer dedication of parkland to site plan approval if development within the subdivision will require a site plan under Chapter 25-5 (Site
Plan).
(E) If land dedication is required for site plan approval, the area to be dedicated must be shown on the site plan as "Parkland Dedicated to the City of Austin".
Unless the director has deferred the land dedication until the time of issuance of a certificate of occupancy under Subsection (F), the applicant shall
dedicate the parkland required by this article to the City by deed or easement before the site plan is released.
(F) The director may defer the land dedication until the time of issuance of a certificate of occupancy if the land proposed to be dedicated is necessary for
the construction of the proposed development and the applicant will restore the parkland. If the director authorizes the deferral of land dedication until
this subsection, the development shall not receive any type of certificate of occupancy, temporary or permanent, until the land has been dedicated.
(G) For a building permit that is required to dedicate parkland the area must be dedicated in a deed or easement to the City. The applicant shall dedicate to
the City all parkland required by this article before a building permit is issued.
(H) The applicant shall pay all costs of transferring the parkland to the City, including the costs of:
(1) an environmental site assessment without any further recommendations for clean-up, certified to the City not earlier than the 120th day before the
closing date;
(2) a Category 1(a) land title survey, certified to the City and the title company not earlier than the 120th day before the closing date;
(3) a title commitment with copies of all Schedule B and C documents, and an owner's title policy;
(4) a fee simple deed;
(5) taxes prorated to the closing date;
(6) recording fees; and
(7) charges or fees collected by the title company.
about:blank 40/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
Source: Ord. No. 20231130-087, Pt. 2, 1-1-24.