ยง 25-2-452 - APPLICATIONS AND CRITERIA FOR DISTRICT DESIGNATION.
(A) Application Requirements.
(1) The Land Use Commission may consider no more than a total of three applications per month to designate a creative spaces district and to apply
density bonus creative spaces (DBCS) combining district zoning to the property within the creative spaces district.
(2) An application to designate a creative spaces district must demonstrate that the area satisfies the criteria for designation and include the information
required by the director of the Economic Development Department.
(3) An applicant must submit proposed supplemental standards as described in Section 25-2-454 (District Designation Ordinance and Designation on
Zoning Map) as part of an application to designate an area a creative spaces district.
(4) The director of the Economic Development Department is authorized to adopt rules under Chapter 1-2 (Administrative Rules) that requires an
applicant to provide certain information as part of an application to designate an area a creative spaces district.
(B) Except as provided in Subsection (E), the council may designate an area a creative spaces district if:
(1) the area is at least three acres;
(2) the base zoning for each site within the area is a commercial or less restrictive base zoning district;
(3) at least 25 percent of the primary uses within the proposed district are existing creative spaces or are proposed to be used as creative spaces; and
(4) at least 50 percent of the existing uses are non-residential.
(C) The council may enlarge an existing creative spaces district if the site to be included contains uses that qualify as existing creative spaces or is proposed
to contain new creative spaces and the creative spaces add or will add value to the district.
(D) Except as provided in Subsection (E), the council may reduce the boundary of an existing creative spaces district if the site to be excluded:
(1) does not contribute to the preservation or creation of creative space, including affordable creative space;
(2) does not include a creative space; and
(3) has not utilized the benefits of the density bonus program.
(E) Limitations.
(1) A site within a creative spaces district is not eligible to be combined with any other density bonus combining district.
(2) If a site's base zoning is combined with the planned development area (PDA) combining district, the site is not eligible to be included in a creative
spaces district.
Source: Ord. No. 20241010-034, Pt. 3, 10-21-24.