ยง 25-2-671 - TOWN LAKE PARK TERMS.
about:blank 149/690
12/4/25, 4:54 PM Austin, TX Land Development Code
In Section 25-2-672 (Town Lake Park Regulations):
(1) COMMUNITY PARK means a portion of Town Lake Park that is intended for city wide use and designed to accommodate large numbers of people
involved in a variety of activities. The following areas in Town Lake Park are community parks:
(a) tracts S-1, S-2, S-3A, S-4, S-6, S-7, S-8, S-9, N-1, N-2, N-3, N-4, N-5A, N-6, N-7, N-8, N-9, N-10, N-11, N-15, N-16A, and N-17A on the park classification
map;
(b) park land in the area bounded on the north by the Colorado River, on the west by Pleasant Valley Road, on the south by the proposed extension
of Lakeshore Boulevard, and on the east by the crest of the bluff of Country Club Creek;
(c) park land in the area bounded on the north by Lake Austin Boulevard, on the south by Town Lake, on the east by the MoPac Freeway, and on the
west by the extension of the western boundary of Eilers Park;
(d) the Holly Street Power Plant, when its current use ceases and it is dedicated as park land; and
(e) park land within 50 feet of the shoreline of Town Lake.
(2) CULTURAL PARK means a portion of Town Lake Park that is intended for cultural facilities, including museums, botanical gardens, and performance
areas. The following areas in Town Lake Park are cultural parks:
(a) tracts S-2D, S-3, S-4A, S-5, S-5A, S-5B, and S-5C on the park classification map;
(b) park land in the area bounded on the east by Dawson Road, on the west by Lamar Boulevard, on the south by Barton Springs Road, and on the
north by Riverside Drive;
(c) park land in the area bounded on the north by Town Lake, on the south by Barton Springs Road, Barton Boulevard, and the westward extension
of Linscomb Avenue, on the east by Lamar Boulevard, and on the west by Robert E. Lee Road and the hike and bike trail;
(d) park land north of the intersection of River Street and Bierce Street, known as the City of Austin Street and Bridge Yard; and
(e) the Seaholm Power Plant and the Green Water Treatment Plant, including the water intake structures, when the current uses cease and the plants
are dedicated as park land.
(3) NEIGHBORHOOD PARK means a portion of Town Lake Park that is small, informal, is less intensely used than the developed areas of Town Lake Park,
and serves adjacent neighborhoods. The following areas in Town Lake Park are neighborhood parks:
(a) tracts S-2A, S-10, N-5, N-16, and N-17 on the Park Classification Map;
(b) park land in the area bounded on the north by Town Lake, on the west by East Bouldin Creek, on the east by Blunn Creek, and on the south by
Riverside Drive; and
(c) park land in the area bounded on the north by the Colorado River, on the east by Montopolis Drive, on the south by the extension of Grove
Boulevard, and on the west by the crest of the bluff of Country Club Creek.
(4) PARK CLASSIFICATION MAP means the map that is on file with the Parks and Recreation Department and that is Exhibit "B" to Ordinance No. 890126-
P.
(5) NATURAL AREA means that portion of Town Lake Park that is preserved as a natural environment with limited human activity. The following areas in
Town Lake Park are natural areas:
(a) tracts W-1, S-2B, S-2C, N-3A, and N-18 on the Park Classification Map;
(b) park land located between the Colorado River shoreline and the crest of the bluff north of the Colorado River, from Longhorn Dam to U.S. 183
(Montopolis Bridge); and
(c) park land northeast of Town Lake from Tom Miller Dam to the west boundary of Eilers Park and southwest of Town Lake from Tom Miller Dam to
the Austin Nature Center.
(6) TOWN LAKE PARK PLAN means the Town Lake Park Plan adopted by Ordinance No. 890126-P.
(7) TOWN LAKE PARK means all the dedicated park land in the waterfront overlay zoning district.
(8) URBAN WATERFRONT means that portion of Town Lake Park that is adjacent to high-density urban development. Tracts N-12, N-13, and N-14 on the
park classification map are urban waterfront areas.
Source: Section 13-2-228.1; Ord. 990225-70; Ord. 031211-11.